Parkinson's disease is the second most common neurodegenerative disease and its prevalence has been projected to double over the next 30 years. An accurate diagnosis of Parkinson's disease remains challenging and the characterisation of the earliest stages of the disease is ongoing. Recent developments over the past 5 years include the validation of clinical diagnostic criteria, the introduction and testing of research criteria for prodromal Parkinson's disease, and the identification of genetic subtypes and a growing number of genetic variants associated with risk of Parkinson's disease. Substantial progress has been made in the development of diagnostic biomarkers, and genetic and imaging tests are already part of routine protocols in clinical practice, while novel tissue and fluid markers are under investigation. Parkinson's disease is evolving from a clinical to a biomarker-supported diagnostic entity, for which earlier identification is possible, different subtypes with diverse prognosis are recognised, and novel disease-modifying treatments are in development.
Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by tremor and bradykinesia and is a common neurologic ailment. Male sex and advancing age are independent risk factors and, as the population ages, is taking an increasing toll on productivity and medical resources. There are a number of other extrapyramidal conditions that can make the diagnosis challenging. Unlike other neurodegenerative diseases, idiopathic Parkinson's disease has effective treatments that mitigate symptoms. Medications can improve day-to-day function and, in cases where medication does not give a sustained benefit or has significant side effects, treatments like deep brain stimulation result in improved quality of life.
Parkinson's disease is a neurological disorder with evolving layers of complexity. It has long been characterised by the classical motor features of parkinsonism associated with Lewy bodies and loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. However, the symptomatology of Parkinson's disease is now recognised as heterogeneous, with clinically significant non-motor features. Similarly, its pathology involves extensive regions of the nervous system, various neurotransmitters, and protein aggregates other than just Lewy bodies. The cause of Parkinson's disease remains unknown, but risk of developing Parkinson's disease is no longer viewed as primarily due to environmental factors. Instead, Parkinson's disease seems to result from a complicated interplay of genetic and environmental factors affecting numerous fundamental cellular processes. The complexity of Parkinson's disease is accompanied by clinical challenges, including an inability to make a definitive diagnosis at the earliest stages of the disease and difficulties in the management of symptoms at later stages. Furthermore, there are no treatments that slow the neurodegenerative process. In this Seminar, we review these complexities and challenges of Parkinson's disease.
The substantial contributions of Dr. Gerald Stern to past and current treatments for Parkinson's disease patients are reviewed, which form the foundation for an evaluation of future options to control symptoms and halt progression of the disease. These opportunities will depend on a greater understanding of the relative contributions of the environment, genetic and epigenetic influences to disease onset, and promise to emerge as strategies for improving mitochondrial function, halting accumulation of synuclein and neuromelanin, in addition to refinement of stem cell and gene therapies. Such advances will be achieved through deployment of improved models for the disease.
Parkinson's Disease is the second most common progressive neurodegenerative disorder affecting older American adults and is predicted to increase in prevalence as the United States population ages. Resulting from a pathophysiologic loss or degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of the midbrain and the development of neuronal Lewy Bodies, idiopathic Parkinson's Disease is associated with risk factors including aging, family history, pesticide exposure and environmental chemicals (e.g., synthetic heroin use). Its ultimate cause(s) is (are) unknown. Characterized by both motor and non-motor symptoms, PD patients classically display rest tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia, and stooping posture. PD can also be associated with neurobehavioral disorders (depression, anxiety), cognitive impairment (dementia), and autonomic dysfunction (e.g., orthostasis and hyperhidrosis). Recent decades have witnessed a proliferation of medical pharmacologic therapies and innovative surgical interventions like deep brain stimulation (DBS). However, definitive disease-modifying therapy is still lacking. Experimental therapies are being developed and tested with limited results. Knowledge of strategies to promote optimal quality of life for PD patients is of paramount importance for caregivers, health providers and patients themselves.
Continuous medical progress is significantly improving the quality of health care. As a result, people are living longer than during the past century, but this has also caused an increase of the prevalence of many neurological disorders. Parkinson's disease (PD) is the fastest growing neurological condition, with a doubling of cases reported between 1995 and 2015 and a further doubling projected by 2030. Parkinson's disease is generally associated with characteristic motor symptoms (resting tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia and postural instability). However, patients with PD also experience many non-motor symptoms that might be at least as debilitating as the motor symptoms and which significantly impact patients' quality of life (QoL). Pain is a frequent yet underrecognized symptom; the incidence in PD is much higher than in the general population and constitutes a silent disability that significantly contributes to a deterioration in QoL. Accurate identification of parkinsonian pain is important for its diagnosis and effective treatment. In this review, we provide an overview of the pathophysiology, classification, and management of pain in PD. We define the various modalities of chronic PD pain, suggesting possible explanations for its relationship with PD pathology, and discuss its management and currently recommended therapies.
Parkinson's disease (PD) affects 1-2 per 1000 of the population at any time. PD prevalence is increasing with age and PD affects 1% of the population above 60 years. The main neuropathological finding is α-synuclein-containing Lewy bodies and loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, manifesting as reduced facilitation of voluntary movements. With progression of PD, Lewy body pathology spreads to neocortical and cortical regions. PD is regarded as a movement disorder with three cardinal signs: tremor, rigidity and bradykinesia. A recent revision of the diagnostic criteria excludes postural instability as a fourth hallmark and defines supportive criteria, absolute exclusion criteria and red flags. Non-motor symptoms in PD have gained increasing attention and both motor and non-motor signs are now included among the supportive criteria. The cause of PD is unknown in most cases. Genetic risk factors have been identified, including monogenetic causes that are rare in unselected populations. Some genetic factor can be identified in 5-10% of the patients. Several environmental factors are associated with increased risk of PD. Autopsy studies show that the clinical diagnosis of PD is not confirmed at autopsy in a significant proportion of patients. Revised diagnostic criteria are expected to improve the clinician´s accuracy in diagnosing PD. Increasing knowledge on genetic and environmental risk factors of PD will probably elucidate the cause of this disease within the near future.
The diagnosis of Parkinson disease (PD) is based on the presence of bradykinesia and either resting tremor or rigidity and there should be no features from the history or examination to suggest an alternative cause of parkinsonism. In addition to the motor manifestations of PD, there is a long list of nonmotor symptoms, several of which occur before motor signs and are considered "prodromal" PD. These are classified as neuropsychiatric, autonomic, sleep, and sensory. There are many medical options for the treatment of PD but levodopa remains the mainstay. Deep brain stimulation and other advanced therapies are also available.
Since 2006, several longitudinal studies have assessed environmental or behavioural factors that seem to modify the risk of developing Parkinson's disease. Increased risk of Parkinson's disease has been associated with exposure to pesticides, consumption of dairy products, history of melanoma, and traumatic brain injury, whereas a reduced risk has been reported in association with smoking, caffeine consumption, higher serum urate concentrations, physical activity, and use of ibuprofen and other common medications. Randomised trials are investigating the possibility that some of the negative risk factors might be neuroprotective and thus beneficial in individuals with early Parkinson's disease, particularly with respect to smoking (nicotine), caffeine, and urate. In the future, it might be possible to identify Parkinson's disease in its prodromal phase and to promote neuroprotective interventions before the onset of motor symptoms. At this time, however, the only intervention that seems justifiable for the primary prevention of Parkinson's disease is the promotion of physical activity, which is likely to be beneficial for the prevention of several chronic diseases.
Increasing evidence points to biological sex as an important factor in the development and phenotypical expression of Parkinson's disease (PD). Risk of developing PD is twice as high in men than women, but women have a higher mortality rate and faster progression of the disease. Moreover, motor and nonmotor symptoms, response to treatments and disease risk factors differ between women and men. Altogether, sex-related differences in PD support the idea that disease development might involve distinct pathogenic mechanisms (or the same mechanism but in a different way) in male and female patients. This review summarizes the most recent knowledge concerning differences between women and men in PD clinical features, risk factors, response to treatments and mechanisms underlying the disease pathophysiology. Unraveling how the pathology differently affect the two sexes might allow the development of tailored interventions and the design of innovative programs that meet the distinct needs of men and women, improving patient care.
The development of interventions to slow or halt the progression of Parkinson's disease remains a priority for patients and researchers alike. To date, no agents have been shown to have unequivocal evidence of disease-modifying effects in Parkinson's disease. The absence of disease-modifying treatments might relate not only to inadequate approaches for the selection of therapeutic candidates but also to insufficient attention to detail in clinical trial design. Better understanding of Parkinson's disease pathogenesis associated with advances in laboratory models, the use of objective biomarkers of disease progression and target engagement, and a focus on agents known to be safe for human use, alongside the use of precision medicine approaches, should together greatly increase the likelihood for successful identification of disease-modifying treatments for Parkinson's disease.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of most disabling disorders of the central nervous system. The motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease: shaking, rigidity, slowness of movement, postural instability and difficulty with walking and gait, are difficult to measure. When disease symptoms become more pronounced, the patient experiences difficulties with hand function and walking, and is prone to falls. Baseline motor impairment and cognitive impairment are probable predictors of more rapid motor decline and disability. An additional difficulty is the variability of the symptoms caused by adverse effects of drugs, especially levodopa. Motor assessment of Parkinson`s Disease can be divided into clinimetrics, assessment of balance and posture, arm and hand function, and gait/walking. These are many clinimetric scales used in Parkinson`s Disease, the most popular being the Hoehn and Yahr stages of progression of the disease and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale. Balance and posture can be assessed by clinimetric scales like the Berg BS, Tinetti, Brunel BA, and Timed Up and Go Test, or measured by posturometric platforms. Among skill tests, the best known are: the Purdue Pegboard Test, Nine-Hole Peg Test, Jebsen and Taylor test, Pig- Tail Test, Frenchay Arm Test, Action Research Arm Test, Wolf FMT and Finger-Tapping Test. Among motricity scales, the most popular are: the Fugl-Meyer Motor Assessment Scale and Södring Motor Evaluation. Gait and walking can also be assessed quantitatively and qualitatively. Recently, the most popular is three-dimensional analysis of movement. This review article presents the current possibilities of motor assessment in Parkinson`s disease.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease with a 200 year-long research history. Our understanding about its clinical phenotype and pathogenesis remains limited, although dopaminergic replacement therapy has significantly improved patient outcomes. Autonomic dysfunction is an essential category of non-motor phenotypes that has recently become a cutting edge field that directs frontier research in PD. In this review, we initially describe the epidemiology of dysautonomic symptoms in PD. Then, we perform a meticulous analysis of the pathophysiology of autonomic dysfunction in PD and propose that the peripheral autonomic nervous system may be a key route for α-synuclein pathology propagation from the periphery to the central nervous system. In addition, we recommend that constipation, orthostatic hypotension, urinary dysfunction, erectile dysfunction, and pure autonomic failure should be viewed as prodromal dysautonomic markers in PD prediction and diagnosis. Finally, we summarize the strategies currently available for the treatment of autonomic dysfunction in PD and suggest that high-quality, better-designed, randomized clinical trials should be conducted in the future.
The correct diagnosis of Parkinson's disease is important for prognostic and therapeutic reasons and is essential for clinical research. Investigations of the diagnostic accuracy for the disease and other forms of parkinsonism in community-based samples of patients taking antiparkinsonian medication confirmed a diagnosis of parkinsonism in only 74% of patients and clinically probable Parkinson's disease in 53% of patients. Clinicopathological studies based on brain bank material from the UK and Canada have shown that clinicians diagnose the disease incorrectly in about 25% of patients. In these studies, the most common reasons for misdiagnosis were presence of essential tremor, vascular parkinsonism, and atypical parkinsonian syndromes. Infrequent diagnostic errors included Alzheimer's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, and drug-induced parkinsonism. Increasing knowledge of the heterogeneous clinical presentation of the various parkinsonisms has resulted in improved diagnostic accuracy of the various parkinsonian syndromes in specialised movement-disorder units. Also genetic testing and various other ancillary tests, such as olfactory testing, MRI, and dopamine-transporter single-photon-emission computed-tomography imaging, help with clinical diagnostic decisions.
As a multi-factorial degenerative disease, Parkinson's disease (PD) leads to tremor, gait rigidity, and hypokinesia, thus hampering normal living. As this disease is usually detected in the later stages when neurons have degenerated completely, cure is on hold, ultimately leading to death due to the lack of early diagnostic techniques. Thus, biomarkers are required to detect the disease in the early stages when prevention is possible. Various biomarkers providing early diagnosis of the disease include those of imaging, cerebrospinal fluid, oxidative stress, neuroprotection, and inflammation. Also, biomarkers, alone or in combination, are used in the diagnosis and evolution of PD. This review encompasses various biomarkers available for PD and discusses recent advances in their development.
Parkinson's disease is the most common serious movement disorder in the world, affecting about 1% of adults older than 60 years. The disease is attributed to selective loss of neurons in the substantia nigra, and its cause is enigmatic in most individuals. Symptoms of Parkinson's disease respond in varying degrees to drugs, and surgery offers hope for patients no longer adequately controlled in this manner. The high prevalence of the disease, and important advances in its management, mean that generalists need to have a working knowledge of this disorder. This Seminar covers the basics, from terminology to aspects of diagnosis, treatment, and pathogenesis.
The genetic landscape of Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterised by rare high penetrance pathogenic variants causing familial disease, genetic risk factor variants driving PD risk in a significant minority in PD cases and high frequency, low penetrance variants, which contribute a small increase of the risk of developing sporadic PD. This knowledge has the potential to have a major impact in the clinical care of people with PD. We summarise these genetic influences and discuss the implications for therapeutics and clinical trial design.
Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder. The classical motor symptoms include resting tremors, bradykinesia, rigidity and postural instability and are accompanied by the loss of dopaminergic neurons and Lewy pathology. Diminished neurotransmitter level, oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction and perturbed protein homeostasis over time worsen the disease manifestations in elderly people. Current management strategies aim to provide symptomatic relief and to slow down the disease progression. However, no pharmacological breakthrough has been made to protect dopaminergic neurons and associated motor circuitry components. Deep brain stimulation, stem cells-derived dopaminergic neurons transplantation, gene editing and gene transfer remain promising approaches for the potential management of neurodegenerative disease. Toxin or genetically induced rodent models replicating Parkinson's disease pathology are of high predictive value for translational research. This review addresses the current understanding, management strategies and the Parkinson's disease models for translational research. Preclinical research may provide powerful tools to quest the potential therapeutic and neuroprotective compounds for dopaminergic neurons and hence possible cure for the Parkinson's disease.
Mitochondrial dysfunction represents a well-established player in the pathogenesis of both monogenic and idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). Initially originating from the observation that mitochondrial toxins cause PD, findings from genetic PD supported a contribution of mitochondrial dysfunction to the disease. Here, proteins encoded by the autosomal recessively inherited PD genes Parkin, PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1), and DJ-1 are involved in mitochondrial pathways. Additional evidence for mitochondrial dysfunction stems from models of autosomal-dominant PD due to mutations in alpha-synuclein (SNCA) and leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2). Moreover, patients harboring alterations in mitochondrial polymerase gamma (POLG) often exhibit signs of parkinsonism. While some molecular studies suggest that mitochondrial dysfunction is a primary event in PD, others speculate that it is the result of impaired mitochondrial clearance. Most recent research even implicated damage-associated molecular patterns released from non-degraded mitochondria in neuroinflammatory processes in PD. Here, we summarize the manifold literature dealing with mitochondria in the context of PD. Moreover, in light of recent advances in the field of personalized medicine, patient stratification according to the degree of mitochondrial impairment followed by mitochondrial enhancement therapy may hold potential for at least a subset of genetic and idiopathic PD cases. Thus, in the second part of this review, we discuss therapeutic approaches targeting mitochondrial dysfunction with the aim to prevent or delay neurodegeneration in PD.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor and non-motor symptoms. More than 200 years after its first clinical description, PD remains a serious affliction that affects a growing proportion of the population. Prevailing treatments only alleviate symptoms; there is still neither a cure that targets the neurodegenerative processes nor therapies that modify the course of the disease. Over the past decades, several animal models have been developed to study PD. Although no model precisely recapitulates the pathology, they still provide valuable information that contributes to our understanding of the disease and the limitations of our treatment options. This review comprehensively summarizes the different animal models available for Parkinson's research, with a focus on those induced by drugs, neurotoxins, pesticides, genetic alterations, α-synuclein inoculation, and viral vector injections. We highlight their characteristics and ability to reproduce PD-like phenotypes. It is essential to realize that the strengths and weaknesses of each model and the induction technique at our disposal are determined by the research question being asked. Our review, therefore, seeks to better aid researchers by ensuring a concrete discernment of classical and novel animal models in PD research.

In recent years, therapeutic strategies [...].
Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor and nonmotor symptoms. Psychosis is a common feature of Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease psychosis (PDP) encompasses minor phenomena (illusions, passage hallucinations and presence hallucinations), visual and nonvisual hallucinations and delusions. PDP is associated with reduced function and quality of life. The initial management approach should focus on identification and treatment of any contributory medical factors, reduction or discontinuation of medications with potential to induce or worsen psychosis, nonpharmacological strategies and consideration of acetylcholinesterase inhibitor treatment in the setting of dementia. Pimavanserin, quetiapine and clozapine may all be considered for use in PDP. In this review, we discuss the presentation, diagnosis and management of PDP.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a slowly progressive multi-system neurodegenerative disorder, with no available disease-modifying treatment. The disease is associated with motor and non-motor symptoms leading to impaired quality of life, disability and signi cant caregiver distress. Patients with PD bene t from palliative care which provides a holistic approach to meet their multi-faceted needs, including symptom control, communication needs and caregiver support. This article would review on recent articles addressing palliative care for PD.
Since the discovery of dopamine as a neurotransmitter in the 1950s, Parkinson's disease (PD) research has generated a rich and complex body of knowledge, revealing PD to be an age-related multifactorial disease, influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. The tremendous complexity of the disease is increased by a nonlinear progression of the pathogenesis between molecular, cellular and organic systems. In this minireview, we explore the complexity of PD and propose a systems-based approach, organizing the available information around cellular disease hallmarks. We encourage our peers to adopt this cell-based view with the aim of improving communication in interdisciplinary research endeavors targeting the molecular events, modulatory cell-to-cell signaling pathways and emerging clinical phenotypes related to PD.
This overview of Parkinson's disease is designed to serve as a background to the discussion elsewhere in this supplement on the pharmacotherapy used in its management. Parkinson's disease is a common progressive neurodegenerative condition associated with significant disability and negative impact on quality of life. Although the cause of Parkinson's disease is unknown, the pathologic manifestation involves the loss or dysfunction of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Characteristic clinical manifestations include difficulty with coordinated movement such as asymmetric resting tremor, rigidity, and bradykinesia. These symptoms and their response to levodopa constitute the basis for a clinical diagnosis of Parkinson's disease. Postural instability and gait abnormalities occur in more advanced disease. Although there is no cure for Parkinson's disease, a number of pharmacologic treatments are available for managing the motor and nonmotor symptoms. Research is under way to assess the disease-modifying ability of both standard and newer treatments.
Our understanding of dysfunction of the gastrointestinal system in patients with Parkinson's disease has increased substantially in the past decade. The entire gastrointestinal tract is affected in these patients, causing complications that range from oral issues, including drooling and swallowing problems, to delays in gastric emptying and constipation. Additionally, small intestinal bacterial overgrowth and Helicobacter pylori infection affect motor fluctuations by interfering with the absorption of antiparkinsonian drugs. The multifaceted role of the gastrointestinal system in Parkinson's disease necessitates a specific and detailed assessment and treatment plan. The presence of pervasive α-synuclein deposition in the gastrointestinal tract strongly implicates this system in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. Future studies elucidating the role of the gastrointestinal tract in the pathological progression of Parkinson's disease might hold potential for early disease detection and development of neuroprotective approaches.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and subsequent motor symptoms, but various non-motor symptoms (NMS) often precede motor symptoms. Recently, NMS have attracted much attention as a clue for identifying patients in a prodromal stage of PD, which is an excellent point at which to administer disease-modifying therapies (DMTs). These prodromal symptoms include olfactory loss, constipation, and sleep disorders, especially rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder (RBD), all of which are also important for elucidating the mechanisms of the initiation and progression of the disease. For the development of DMTs, an animal model that reproduces the prodromal stage of PD is also needed. There have been various mammalian models reported, including toxin-based, genetic, and alpha synuclein propagation models. In this article, we review the animal models that exhibit NMS as prodromal symptoms and also discuss an appropriate prodromal model and its importance for the development of DMT of PD.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a movement disorder, mainly affecting population consisting of the aged. PD occurs chiefly due to progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in nigrostriatal pathway. Largely, PD patients suffer from non-motor symptoms, such as depression, anxiety, fatigue, and sleep disorders, that needs further investigation and addressing during PD research. Depression in PD is a predominant and complex symptom, and its pathology exists extrinsic to the nigrostriatal system. This disease can  ultimately be managed by a combination of regular physiotherapy and proper medication. Taking together the present scenario of PD, including the nature of disease, characteristics, treatment, diagnosis of the patients with PD, these outcomes were reviewed to be explored along with many speech-based solutions to PD in this study. This neurodegenerative disorder needs advancement in  research and development which  can help patients with PD to lead a normal life.
Parkinson's disease is a common, progressive neurodegenerative disorder, the prevalence of which is on the rise. The diagnosis and management of Parkinson's disease is therefore likely to become increasingly frequent in general practice. The aim of this article is to provide a practical overview for the general practitioner of the initial diagnosis and management of Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease is a multisystem disorder, and the way the diagnosis is delivered, as well as the early management, can have a lasting impact on the patient experience. In this article, the authors present their preferred approach to diagnosis and initial treatment, while highlighting common pitfalls and some useful simple strategies for communicating the diagnosis.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder in which environmental (lifestyle, dietary, infectious disease) factors as well as genetic make-up play a role. Metabolomics, an evolving research field combining biomarker discovery and pathogenetics, is particularly useful in studying complex pathophysiology in general and Parkinson's disease (PD) specifically. PD, the second most frequent neurodegenerative disorder, is characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and the presence of intraneural inclusions of α-synuclein aggregates. Although considered a predominantly movement disorder, PD is also associated with number of non-motor features. Metabolomics has provided useful information regarding this neurodegenerative process with the aim of identifying a disease-specific fingerprint. Unfortunately, many disease variables such as clinical presentation, motor system involvement, disease stage and duration substantially affect biomarker relevance. As such, metabolomics provides a unique approach to studying this multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder.
Genetic atypical Parkinson's disease (PD) describes monogenic forms of PD that resemble idiopathic PD but feature prominent atypical clinical signs and symptoms and can be sub-grouped into i) atypical monogenic forms caused by mutations in the ATP13A2, DNAJC6, FBXO7, SYNJ1, VPS13C, and DCTN genes; ii) monogenic PD more closely resembling idiopathic PD, but associated with atypical features in at least a subset of cases (SNCA-, LRRK2-, VPS35-, Parkin-, PINK1-, and DJ-1-linked PD; iii) carriers of mutations in genes that are usually associated with other movement disorders but may present with parkinsonism, such as dopa-responsive dystonia. Some atypical features are shared by almost all forms, such as an overall early age at onset. Other clinical signs are present in carriers of mutations across several different genes, such as for example, early cognitive decline. Finally, several clinical features can serve as red flags for specific forms of atypical PD including a supranuclear gaze palsy in ATP13A2 mutation carriers or hypoventilation linked to mutations in the DCTN1 gene.
Young-onset Parkinson's disease (YOPD), defined as age at onset between 21 and 40 years, presents unique motor and non-motor features that differentiate this subtype from the typical late onset Parkinson's disease (LOPD), starting after age 61. Because it affects patients in the prime of their life, it often has an extraordinary impact on their family, social, and professional life. While typically progressing at a slower rate than LOPD, patients with YOPD are more prone to develop levodopa-related motor complications, including dyskinesia. In this article we will review the clinical features and epidemiology of YOPD with focus on its impact on pregnancy, employment and family, as well as its particular diagnostic and management challenges.
Most patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) have sporadic disease, but some PD patients exhibit familial disease aggregation. Identification of causative genes and understanding their function and pathophysiology have contributed significantly to the diagnosis and treatment of PD. In this chapter, we explain the history of PD genetics and cutting-edge research findings, which genes should be tested, and how they should be tested in familial and typical sporadic PD in Japan.
The links between diet and Parkinson's disease (PD) are unclear and incomprehensible. However, numerous studies have demonstrated the correlation between diet, nutrients and health condition in PD patients. They indicate the possibility of management of the disease, which might be possible through nutrition. Pharmaceutical treatment as well as a complementary holistic approach to the patients should be considered. It is of critical importance to understand how the diet and nutrients might influence PD. A better understanding of the relationship between diet and PD could help to better manage the disease explain promising therapeutic approaches, minimize motor and nonmotor symptoms and disease progression based on a personalized diet. In this review, the recent literature on the observed nutrition disorders and the possible role of diet and nutrients in the prevention and potential regression of PD, as well as dietary interventions and supplementation used to manage the disease is revised.
Parkinson's disease is one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases caused by degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra. The neuropathologic hallmark of Parkinson's disease is the presence of Lewy bodies composed mostly of alpha-synuclein and ubiquitin. It is believed that the occurrence of Parkinson's disease is due to a combination of genetic and environmental factors, but the exact mechanism of Parkinson's disease development is not fully elucidated. The most characteristic motor symptoms for Parkinson's disease include bradykinesia, rigidity, resting tremor and postural instability, while many patients also have non-motor signs and symptoms. The key therapeutic agent in the treatment of Parkinson's disease is L-dopa, and the others are dopaminergic agents, monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibitors, catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitors, amantadine and anticholinergic agents.
The complex yet not fully understood pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease includes an important molecular component consisting of oxidative status changes, thus leading to oxidative stress occurrence. While no particular evidence has been reported that describes the relationship between oxidative stress and the molecular mechanisms behind Parkinson's disease development, animal model studies has shown that oxidative stress induction could modulate Parkinson's disease symptomatology. Despite the inability to perfectly replicate human disease in animals and despite that Parkinson's disease has not been reported in any animal species, animal modeling is one of the most important tools in understanding the complex mechanisms of human disorders. In this way, this study is aimed at detailing this particular relationship and describing the molecular mechanisms underlying Parkinson's disease in animal models, focusing on the potential advantages and disadvantages of zebrafish in this context. The information relevant to this topic was gathered using major scientific database research (PubMed, Google Scholar, Web of Science, and Scopus) based on related keywords and inclusion criteria. Thus, it was observed that oxidative stress possesses an important role in Parkinson's disease as shown by numerous animal model studies, many of which are based on rodent experimental models. However, an emerging impact of the zebrafish model was observed in the research of Parkinson's disease pathological mechanisms with regard to disease development factors and the cause-effect relationship between oxidative stress and comorbidities (such as depression, hyposmia, fatigue, sleep disturbances, and cognitive deficits) and also with regard to the pharmacological potential of antioxidant molecules in Parkinson's disease treatment.
To date, there is no disease-modifying therapy for Parkinson's disease; however, promising new agents have advanced into clinical trials.
Parkinson's disease still is a clinical diagnosis. Also, the MDS Clinical Diagnostic Criteria for Parkinson's disease published in 2015 are based on clinical characteristics and were designed codifying the diagnostic process of an expert. The purpose was to support less experienced neurologists to achieve the diagnostic procedure up to the level of an expert. The criteria include both negative and positive properties. However, some features exclude patients with typical Parkinson's disease mainly during their early or late stages. These includes symptoms such as the absence of the combination of typical motor symptoms, the insufficient response to dopaminergic treatment, autonomic dysfunction, dystonia, postural instability or cognitive impairment. This chapter discusses those "atypical" symptom constellations that complicate the differential diagnosis of PD versus atypical parkinsonism and illustrates additional considerations that might be helpful to achieve a correct diagnosis.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic, debilitating neurodegenerative disorder characterized clinically by a variety of progressive motor and nonmotor symptoms. Currently, there is a dearth of diagnostic tools available to predict, diagnose or mitigate disease risk or progression, leading to a challenging dilemma within the healthcare management system. The search for a reliable biomarker for PD that reflects underlying pathology is a high priority in PD research. Currently, there is no reliable single biomarker predictive of risk for motor and cognitive decline, and there have been few longitudinal studies of temporal progression. A combination of multiple biomarkers might facilitate earlier diagnosis and more accurate prognosis in PD. In this review, we focus on the recent developments of serial biomarkers for PD from a variety of clinical, biochemical, genetic and neuroimaging perspectives.
Both genetic and environmental factors modulate the risk of Parkinson's disease. In this article, all these pathophysiologic processes that contribute to damages at the tissue, cellular, organelle, and molecular levels, and their effects are talked about.
Emerging concepts suggest that a multitude of pathology ranging from misfolding of alpha-synuclein to neuroinflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and neurotransmitter driven alteration of brain neuronal networks lead to a syndrome that is commonly known as Parkinson's disease. The complex underlying pathology which may involve degeneration of non-dopaminergic pathways leads to the expression of a range of non-motor symptoms from the prodromal stage of Parkinson's to the palliative stage. Non-motor clinical subtypes, cognitive and non-cognitive, have now been proposed paving the way for possible subtype specific and non-motor treatments, a key unmet need currently. Natural history of these subtypes remains unclear and need to be defined. In addition to in vivo biomarkers which suggest variable involvement of the cholinergic and noradrenergic patterns of the Parkinson syndrome, abnormal alpha-synuclein accumulation have now been demonstrated in the gut, pancreas, heart, salivary glands, and skin suggesting that Parkinson's is a multi-organ disorder. The Parkinson's phenotype is thus not just a dopaminergic motor syndrome, but a dysfunctional multi-neurotransmitter pathway driven central and peripheral nervous system disorder that possibly ought to be considered a syndrome and not a disease.
To synthesize recent empirical evidence for the prevention and management of falls and fear of falling in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Database from PubMed, Cochrane Library, and EMBASE. Systematic review. We searched the PubMed, Cochrane Library, and EMBASE databases for studies published from inception to February 27, 2021. Inclusion criteria were nonreview articles on prevention and management measures related to falls and fall prevention in Parkinson's disease patients. We selected 45 articles and conducted in-depth research and discussion. According to the causes of falls in PD patients, they were divided into five directions, namely physical status, pre-existing conditions, environment, medical care, and cognition. In the cognitive domain, we focused on the fear of falling. On the above basis, we constructed a fall prevention model, which is a tertiary prevention health care network, based on The Johns Hopkins Fall Risk Assessment Tool to provide ideas for the prevention and management of falling and fear of falling in PD patients in clinical practice CONCLUSIONS: Falls and fear of falls in patients with Parkinson's disease can be reduced by effective clinical prevention and management. Future studies are needed to explore the efficacy of treatment and prevention of falls and fear of falls.
In March 2020, WHO declared Covid-19 outbreak pandemic. There has been increasing evidence that frail, old, multi-pathological patients are at greater risk of developing severe Covid-19 infection than younger, healthy ones. Covid-19's impact on Parkinson's Disease (PD) patients could be analysed through both the influence on PD patients' health and their risk of developing severe Covid-19, and the consequences of lockdown and restrictive measures on mental and cognitive health on both patients and caregivers. Moreover, there are critical issues to be considered about patients' care and management through an unprecedented time like this. One important issue to consider is physiotherapy, as most patients cannot keep exercising because of restrictive measures which has profoundly impacted on their health. Lastly, the relationship between PD and Sars-Cov2 may be even more complicated than it seems as some studies have hypothesized a possible Covid-19-induced parkinsonism. Hereby, we review the state of the art about the relationship between Covid-19 and Parkinson's Disease, focusing on each of these five points.
A "disease-modifying" treatment is defined as an intervention capable of slowing the progressive worsening of clinical symptoms of a neurodegenerative disease. Over the last couple of decades, many efforts have been spent on disease-modifying compounds development in Parkinson's disease (PD). Herein, the authors present an overview of recent and ongoing clinical trials on PD disease-modifying therapies, stratified by mechanism of actions. Overall, several trials have been run to target alpha-synuclein in different ways, with disappointing results so far, despite preclinical positive findings. In the next few years, results on precision trials targeting genetic population or pathways (as β-glucocerebrosidase [GBA] or leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 mutations) are expected.
Mood disorders and anxiety significantly impact the prognosis and disease course of Parkinson's disease. Non-motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease such as apathy, anhedonia, and fatigue overlap with diagnostic criteria for anxiety and depression, thus making accurate diagnosis of mood disorders in Parkinson's disease patients difficult. Furthermore, treatment options for mood disorders can produce motor complications leading to poor adherence and impaired quality of life in Parkinson's disease patients. This review aims to clarify the current state of diagnostic and treatment options pertaining to anxiety and mood disorders in Parkinson's disease. It explores both the pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic treatment modalities for various mood disorders in comorbid Parkinson's disease with a brief discussion of the future outlook of the field given the current state of the literature.
The concept that the skin is a mirror of Parkinson's disease dates to the start of the last century. Despite dermatological disorders being recognised as a common non-motor symptom of Parkinson's disease, they are often overlooked. This article reviews the various skin disorders seen in Parkinson's disease and addresses the other dermatological questions that are frequently raised by those attending Parkinson's disease clinics.

The normal maintenance of human motivation depends on the integrity of subcortical structures that link the medial and lateral prefrontal cortex with the limbic system. Apathy is highly prevalent in Parkinson's disease and causes major impact on the quality of life of patients and caregivers, comparable to depression or cognitive impairment. The clinical differentiation of apathy from the emotional symptoms of depression, and from difficulties in planning or organizing mental programs as a consequence of executive dysfunction, may guide a rationale for individualized treatment approach of apathetic symptoms, which is presently lacking. To review the different apathetic syndromes that can be diagnosed in clinical practice by appropriate scales, as well as the brain systems that subserve each syndrome, helps to explain how dopaminergic, antidepressant, or cholinergic medications may lead to individual improvements in apathy.
Current understanding of the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease suggests a key role of the accumulation of alpha-synuclein in the pathogenesis. This critical review highlights major landmarks, hypotheses and controversies about the origin and progression of synucleinopathy in Parkinson's disease, leading to an updated review of evidence suggesting the enteric nervous system might be the starting point for the whole process. Although accumulating and compelling evidence favors this theory, the remaining knowledge gaps are important points for future studies.
Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder with multiple motor and non-motor features. It is well known that the ability to drive safely is impaired in Parkinson's disease patients. While the impairing effects on psychomotor performance and vision are well established, there is uncertainty about the increased risk of road traffic accidents among drivers with Parkinson's disease. These issues, considering the progressive nature of Parkinson's disease, comorbidities and the profile of unwanted effects of the pharmacological treatments used, indicate that driving automobiles is a unique concern. The Driving under the Influence of Drugs, Alcohol and Medicines (DRUID) categorization and specific advice for medications used in treating Parkinson's disease are presented. Expert commentary: Most medicines currently in use are considered DRUID category II: Likely to produce moderate effects on fitness to drive. Health professionals treating Parkinson's disease patients must be involved in providing proper advice and information to the patient, family and caregivers on the effects of the disorder and its medications on driving, and all possible actions should be undertaken to transition drivers with Parkinson's disease from driving to non-driving.
Parkinson's disease is a common disabling disease of old age. The diagnosis of idiopathic Parkinson's disease is based on clinical signs and has poor sensitivity, with about 25% of patients confidently diagnosed as having the disease actually having other conditions such as multi-system atrophy and other parkinsonism-plus syndromes. Benign essential tremor and arteriosclerotic pseudo-parkinsonism can easily be confused with Parkinson's disease. The cause of Parkinson's disease remains unknown. Speculative research highlights the role of oxidative stress and free radical mediated damage to dopaminergic cells. Parkinson's disease is the one neurodegenerative disorder in which drugs have been demonstrated to be of value. There is now a wide variety of drugs and formulations available, including anticholinergics, amantidine, L-dopa, dopamine agonists including apomorphine, selegiline and soon to be available catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitors. Disabling side-effects of treatment, fluctuations, dyskinesias and psychiatric problems require strategic use of the drugs available. There is an increasing potential for neurosurgical intervention.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative condition that usually presents with symptoms related to asymmetric bradykinesia, resting tremor, rigidity and postural instability. Making the correct diagnosis can be challenging as many conditions-including tremor, gait and atypical parkinsonian disorders-can mimic PD. PD can present with unanticipated motor and non-motor symptoms, and so can masquerade as a number of rheumatological, neurological, sleep and mood disorders. Careful clinical assessment, informed by well-validated diagnostic criteria, is important in the initial diagnostic formulation. In uncertain or ambiguous cases, follow-up with monitoring of the treatment response usually gives the correct diagnosis, as validated in postmortem follow-up studies. 'Premotor' PD-a range of non-motor symptoms, particularly sleep disorders and constipation, which can occur up to 20 years before PD motor onset-is common. The presence of non-motor features in early disease sometimes supports the diagnosis of PD. Here we give an overview of the diagnosis of PD and its most important chameleons and mimics, and review the recent advances in structural and functional imaging in parkinsonism.
Although Parkinson's disease (PD) is primarily a movement disorder, there are a range of associated nonmotor symptoms, including cognitive impairment, depression and sleep disturbance. These can occur throughout the disease course, even predating the motor syndrome. However, both motor and nonmotor symptoms are variable between individual patients. Rate of disease progression is also heterogenous: although 50% have reached key milestones of either postural instability or dementia within 4 years from diagnosis, almost a quarter have a good prognosis at 10 years. In this review we discuss how a range of different factors including clinical features, pathology and genetics, have been used to describe the heterogeneity of PD. We explore the value of longitudinal studies of incident PD cohorts, based on our own experience in Cambridgeshire, to define differences in rates of disease progression and predictors of outcome, including how such studies have informed the development of prognostic models which can be used at an individual patient level. Finally, we discuss the benefits of better understanding the basis of heterogeneity of PD in terms of implications for the development and trialling of more targeted therapies for different subgroups of patients, including regenerative approaches.
General medical problems and complications have a major impact on the quality of life in all stages of Parkinson's disease. To introduce an effective treatment, a comprehensive analysis of the various clinical symptoms must be undertaken. One must distinguish between (1) diseases which arise independently of Parkinson's disease, and (2) diseases which are a direct or indirect consequence of Parkinson's disease. Medical comorbidity may induce additional limitations to physical strength and coping strategies, and may thus restrict the efficacy of the physical therapy which is essential for treating hypokinetic-rigid symptoms. In selecting the appropriate medication for the treatment of any additional medical symptoms, which may arise, its limitations, contraindications and interactions with dopaminergic substances have to be taken into consideration. General medical symptoms and organ manifestations may also arise as a direct consequence of the autonomic dysfunction associated with Parkinson's disease. As the disease progresses, additional non-parkinsonian symptoms can be of concern. Furthermore, the side effects of Parkinson medications may necessitate the involvement of other medical specialists. In this review, we will discuss the various general medical aspects of Parkinson's disease.
Parkinson's disease is the world's second most common neurodegenerative disorder, and its incidence is growing. This editorial reviews the current state of knowledge about Parkinson's disease, its causes, its treatment and the symptomatology that is relevant to the administration of criminal justice. It identifies that, in conjunction with comorbidities, the disease can result in unfitness to stand trial, soundly based pleas of insanity/mental impairment and, in particular, can have a significant effect on the sentencing of offenders. It argues that with the ageing of the modern jail population, the incidence of Parkinson's disease provides a strong justification for the creation of alternative health care approaches that can provide suitable custodial services for those with conditions such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and a variety of forms of dementia.
In the UK 127,000 people are diagnosed with Parkinson's disease, many of whom are frequently admited to hospital. However, Parkinson's disease is not usually the primary cause of admission. Emergency department (ED) nurses must be aware of the medication needs of people with Parkinson's disease and how these can be met in emergency setings to ensure the stability of their condition and to prevent the development of neuroleptic malignant syndrome, a potentially fatal condition caused by abrupt omission of Parkinson's medication. This article highlights the importance of ensuring that patients with Parkinson's disease continue their medication regimen while in an ED, even if they are temporarily unable to swallow, and uses a case study to illustrate various ways of achieving this.
There is an estimated 35-45% loss of striatal dopamine at the time of diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD), and cases clinically diagnosed in the early stages may already be pathologically in advanced stages. Recent large-scale clinical trials of disease-modifying therapies (DMT) also suggest the necessity of targeting patients at earlier stages of the disease. From this perspective, the prodromal phase of PD is currently the focus of attention, emphasizing the need for a prodromal mouse model that accurately reflects the pathophysiology, along with early biomarkers. To establish prodromal animal model of PD with high face validity that reflects the disease state, the model must possess high construct validity that accurately incorporates clinical and pathological features in the prodromal phase. Furthermore, as a preclinical model of DMT, the model must possess high predictive validity to accurately evaluate the response to intervention. This review provides an overview of animal models which reflect the characteristics of prodromal PD, including alpha-synuclein (aS) accumulation and associated early non-motor symptoms, with a focus on the aS propagation model and genetic model. In addition, we discuss the challenges associated with these models. The genetic model often fails to induce motor symptoms, while aS propagation models skip the crucial step of initial aS aggregate formation, thereby not fully replicating the entire natural course of the disease. Identifying factors that induce the transition from prodromal to symptomatic phase is important as a preclinical model for DMT to prevent or delay the onset of the disease.
Most of the neurobehavioral aspects of Parkinson's disease have been well established and studied, but many are not well known, and hardly studied. This article focuses on several behavioral abnormalities that are common, and frequently cause difficulty for the patient and family due to lack of recognition as part of the disease. While it is well known that L-Dopa dyskinesias are frequently not recognized or under appreciated by patients, a similar lack of recognition may affect the patient's own speech volume, where their center of gravity is located, whether they are tilted to one side, and their under-recognition of others' emotional displays. In addition, PD patients are often misperceived by others incorrect impression of their emotional and cognitive state based purely on facial expression. These changes and others are briefly reviewed.
Psychosis is a serious comorbidity to Parkinson's disease associated with high levels of distress and disability but access to effective treatments remain limited, leading to high rates of emergency hospitalization. Here, we propose a new framework for how cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) may be used to treat Parkinson's disease psychosis. We note specific adaptions, including aims that focus on reducing distress and disability and extending quality of life; tailored psychoeducation; assessment and formulation that additionally includes disease course, medication effects and side-effects, and Parkinson's specific social factors; addressing anxiety and depression alongside cognitive appraisals for the types of psychotic symptoms more common in Parkinson's disease; appropriate reality testing sensitive to disease progression; and trigger monitoring and management for hallucinations and delusions that carefully distinguishes this from avoidant coping. We review preliminary case study-level evidence for the successful use of CBT for Parkinson's disease psychosis and suggest a road map for its formal evaluation before integration into evidence-based healthcare.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases and affects 150 to 200 people per 100,000 population. Rapid advances have been made in the neurobiology of PD; this disorder is now recognized as a model of dysfunction in fronto-striatal circuits expressed by motor and behavioral symptoms. Several clinical and surgical strategies for the management of PD are discussed.
Nonmotor symptoms are integral to Parkinson's disease. Several subtypes dominated by specific nonmotor symptoms have emerged. In this chapter, the rationale behind nonmotor subtyping and currently proposed nonmotor subgroups within Parkinson's disease based on data-driven cluster analysis and clinical observations will be summarized. Furthermore, the concept of seven clinical nonmotor subtypes will be discussed in detail including the clinical presentation, potential biomarkers, and the clinical relevance. In future, nonmotor subtypes will possibly play a major role within the aim to achieve personalized medicine.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second common progressive neurodegenerative disease, distressing older men and is prevalent Worldwide. This article is aimed to review the epidemiology, etiology, pathogenesis, clinical manifestation, diagnosis and management of PD. A google search was performed to recognise studies that review the characteristics of PD. Search terms included 'Parkinson's disease', 'epidemiology', 'etiology', 'pathogenesis', 'clinical manifestations', 'diagnosis' and 'management of Parkinson disease'. PD is linked to factors such as environmental chemicals, aging, family history and pesticide exposure such as the use of synthetic heroin. PD is characterised clinically by tremors at rest, postural instability, expressionless countenance, lead pipe rigidity and less commonly cognitive impairment. After 60 years of age, PD is commonly prevalent in 1-% of the population, no racial differences are apparent, but the prevalence of PD is more common in men than women. There has also been a better understanding that the disorder may be linked with major non-motor trouble in addition to the additional generally recognised motor complications. There are various management options for the timely management of PD. As the ailment advances, further management strategies are existing; however, the management of non-motor manifestations and late stage motor complications remains mainly testing and will advantage from additional clinical studies. In this article, we have discussed current progress in the understanding of the epidemiology, clinical manifestations, pathogenesis and management strategies of the disease.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder after Alzheimer's disease. The prevalence of PD increases with age. The spectrum of clinical features, the rate of progression of the disease, the burden of nonmotor symptoms, and the response to medications are different in older patients with PD from the relatively younger patients. Management of symptoms of PD in older patients is challenging because of possible existence of several age-related systemic illness. While dealing with older patients, it is crucial not to attribute all the physical symptoms to PD. Thorough evaluation for existence of diseases such as normal pressure hydrocephalus and vascular parkinsonism which partially mimic the symptoms of PD carries immense importance. Medical management of parkinsonian symptoms should be preferred with levodopa monotherapy. However, in patients with significant motor fluctuations, dopaminergic agents may be added with caution, as they are notorious for several adverse reactions. Nonmotor symptoms must be provided high importance as they substantially worsen the quality of life. In addition to parkinsonian symptoms, older patients with PD may need to undergo surgery for several conditions. Meticulous perioperative management is crucial as older patients with PD may face several surgery-related complications compared to the younger patients. Compliance to treatment is an important issue in old age. Hence multidisciplinary approach to management of PD in older patients should be emphasized.
2017 marks 200 years since James Parkinson's published his 'Essay on the Shaking Palsy'. Although now most famous for describing the condition that came to bear his name, Parkinson had a wide range of interests and his influence spread beyond medicine. In this review, we provide a biography of James Parkinson's remarkable life.Parkinson's paper not only comprehensively described the symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD), but challenged his peers to better understand the pathophysiology of the PD. Key observation over the next 2 centuries, included the recognition of the link between the substantia nigra and PD and the discoveries of dopamine deficiency in patients with PD. We review the subsequent development of pharmacological and surgical therapies. Despite great progress over the last 200 years, Parkinson's hopes for a 'cure if employed early enough' or that 'some remedial process may ere long be discovered by which at least the progression of the disease may be stopped' remain apposite today and we reflect on the challenges ahead for the next century.

Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a highly heterogeneous entity in terms of clinical manifestations, progression, and treatment response. This variability has given rise to the hypothesis that different clinical subtypes of the disease exist. To date, several clinical subtypes have been described, mostly based on different clinical features, and sometimes with the support of biomarkers, either fluid, neuroimaging, or neurophysiological. The most homogeneous subtypes detected are a 'benign subtype', characterised by younger age at onset, mild non-motor symptoms, and a slower rate of disease progression, and a 'malignant subtype', which features an older age at onset, a higher burden of non-motor symptoms, and faster disease progression. Despite extensive research, none of the subtypes identified so far seem to be biologically supported, so clinical subtyping does not elucidate PD aetiology and does not allow for the prediction of prognosis or treatment response. This study was aimed to review the literature on this topic and to examine the studies on PD subtyping. We also reviewed the proposed biomarkers for a biological classification of PD, and outlined the role of genetics and pathology within this context. In light of the recent proposal of a biological classification of PD, which might overcome the limits of the clinical diagnosis, PD subtyping should hopefully shepherd researchers towards a biological approach, also aided by recent advances in the field of biomarkers.
Early observations of specific nonmotor and subtle motor symptoms preceding clinical diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD) have paved the way for prodromal PD research, significantly propelling our understanding of early, subclinical stages of neurodegeneration. Prodromal PD has emerged as a complex concept with some researchers suggesting that the period before PD onset is divided into the "at-risk," "preclinical," and "prodromal" phases. Advances in genetic, imaging, laboratory, and digital technologies have enabled the identification of pathophysiological patterns and the potential development of diagnostic, progressive, and therapeutic biomarkers, which could lead to early PD detection and intervention.

Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that predominantly affects motor function due to the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. It presents significant challenges, impacting millions worldwide with symptoms such as tremors, rigidity, bradykinesia, and postural instability, leading to decreased quality of life and increased morbidity. The pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease is multifaceted, involving complex interactions between genetic susceptibility, environmental factors, and aging, with oxidative stress playing a central role in neuronal degeneration. Glutathione S-Transferase enzymes are critical in the cellular defense mechanism against oxidative stress, catalysing the conjugation of the antioxidant glutathione to various toxic compounds, thereby facilitating their detoxification. Recent research underscores the importance of Glutathione S-Transferase in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease, revealing that genetic polymorphisms in Glutathione S-Transferase genes influence the risk and progression of the disease. These genetic variations can affect the enzymatic activity of Glutathione S-Transferase, thereby modulating an individual's capacity to detoxify reactive oxygen species and xenobiotics, which are implicated in Parkinson's disease neuropathological processes. Moreover, biochemical studies have elucidated the role of Glutathione S-Transferase in not only maintaining cellular redox balance but also in modulating various cellular signalling pathways, highlighting its neuroprotective potential. From a therapeutic perspective, targeting Glutathione S-Transferase pathways offers promising avenues for the development of novel treatments aimed at enhancing neuroprotection and mitigating disease progression. This review explores the evident and hypothesized roles of Glutathione S-Transferase in Parkinson's disease, providing a comprehensive overview of its importance and potential as a target for therapeutic intervention.
Holistic management of Parkinson's disease, now recognised as a combined motor and nonmotor disorder, remains a key unmet need. Such management needs relatively accurate definition of the various stages of Parkinson's from early untreated to late palliative as each stage calls for personalised therapies. Management also needs to have a robust knowledge of the progression pattern and clinical heterogeneity of the presentation of Parkinson's which may manifest in a motor dominant or nonmotor dominant manner. The "advanced" stages of Parkinson's disease qualify for advanced treatments such as with continuous infusion or stereotactic surgery yet the concept of "advanced Parkinson's disease" (APD) remains controversial in spite of growing knowledge of the natural history of the motor syndrome of PD. Advanced PD is currently largely defined on the basis of consensus opinion and thus with several caveats. Nonmotor aspects of PD may also reflect advancing course of the disorder, so far not reflected in usual scale based assessments which are largely focussed on motor symptoms. In this paper, we discuss the problems with current definitions of "advanced" PD and also propose the term "complex phase" Parkinson's disease as an alternative which takes into account a multimodal symptoms and biomarker based approach in addition to patient preference.
This review summarizes currently available treatment options and treatment strategies, investigational treatments, and the importance of exercise for early Parkinson's disease. The available treatment options for early Parkinson's disease have changed little in the past decade and include carbidopa/levodopa, dopamine agonists, and monoamine oxidase type B (MAO-B) inhibitors. However, we discuss changes in treatment strategies, including dosing and the use of combination therapy used in an attempt to reduce or delay the appearance of motor complications and other adverse events. We will also review several investigational treatments that have shown promise for the treatment of early Parkinson's disease, including a new extended release formulation of carbidopa/levodopa (IPX066), safinamide which inhibits MAO-B, dopamine uptake and glutamate and pardoprunox which is a 5HT-1A agonist and a partial dopamine agonist. Finally, we discuss recent studies focusing on exercise as an important component in the management of early Parkinson's disease. Advances in the management of early Parkinson's disease include evolving treatment strategies, new investigational treatments, and earlier implementation of various forms of exercise.
In light of contemporary knowledge, we review a classic case of "Parkinson's disease" presented by Charcot. The patient, Bachère, provided an opportunity to change the name of the disease from "Shaking palsy" to "Parkinson's disease". We also explore a total of 4 cases of "Parkinson's disease in extension", especially that of Rab. Léon, described in 2 articles (1889 and 1892) in Nouvelle Iconographie de la Salpêtrière. Although diagnosed by Charcot as a type of Parkinson's disease, and historically accepted as such, he may have been misled. <b>English text is available</b>
Technological evolution leads to the constant enhancement of monitoring systems and recording symptoms of diverse disorders. For Parkinson's disease, wearable devices empowered with machine learning analysis are the main modules for objective measurements. Software and hardware improvements have led to the development of reliable systems that can detect symptoms accurately and be implicated in the follow-up and treatment decisions. Among many different devices developed so far, the most promising ones are those that can record symptoms from all extremities and the trunk, in the home environment during the activities of daily living, assess gait impairment accurately, and be suitable for a long-term follow-up of the patients. Such wearable systems pave the way for a paradigm shift in the management of patients with Parkinson's disease.
Parkinson's disease is a slowly progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterised by motor symptoms, which are accompanied or often even preceded by non-motor symptoms. Pathologically, the disease is characterised by neural degeneration in specific brain regions, including the dopaminergic neurons of the pars compacta of the substantia nigra. At the molecular level, mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, altered protein handling, and reactive microgliosis contribute to the neural degeneration. Advanced age is a significant risk factor. Men are more often affected by the disease than women. Environmental, life-style and genetic factors are potential aetiological factors. The disease is primarily diagnosed on the basis of clinical features. In clinically uncertain cases, magnetic resonance imaging and dopamine transporter single-photon emission computer tomography can provide additional information. Patients usually die due to comorbidity. Parkinson's disease has also several negative influences on the orofacial system.
Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a progressive disorder worldwide and its etiology remains unidentified. Over the last few decades, animal models of PD have been extensively utilized to explore the development and mechanisms of this neurodegenerative condition. Toxic and transgenic animal models for PD possess unique characteristics and constraints, necessitating careful consideration when selecting the appropriate model for research purposes. Animal models have played a significant role in uncovering the causes and development of PD, including its cellular and molecular processes. These models suggest that the disorder arises from intricate interplays between genetic predispositions and environmental influences. Every model possesses its unique set of strengths and weaknesses. This review provides a critical examination of animal models for PD and compares them with the features observed in the human manifestation of the disease.
Genetic forms represent a small fraction of Parkinson's disease (PD) but their discovery has revolutionized research in the field, putting α-synuclein in the spotlight, and uncovering other key neuropathological mechanisms of the disease. The question of whether genetic and idiopathic PD (iPD) correspond to a same disease entity is not simply philosophical, has implications for the discovery of the biological background of PD and for the development of novel therapeutic strategies that may also be applicable to the larger iPD group. Here, we review the current landscape of what has been labeled genetic PD and critically discuss the rational for merging or separating genetic and idiopathic forms of PD as the same or different disease entities. We conclude by addressing the potential implications for future research.
Homocysteine is an essential intermediate product of biochemical reactions that is present in various tissues of the human body. Homocysteine may be associated with the development and progression of Parkinson's disease. Plasma homocysteine levels in patients with Parkinson's disease are elevated compared to those of healthy individuals. High homocysteine drives PD development and progression while aggregating the clinical symptoms of PD patients. The relationship between PD and homocysteine involves multiple pathways, including nerve cell apoptosis, oxidative stress, and DNA damage. This is crucial for explaining how high homocysteine drives the PD procession. Elevated homocysteine level during PD development and progression offers a new strategy for the diagnosis and treatment of this disease.
GBA mutations are to date the most common genetic risk factor for Parkinson's disease. The GBA gene encodes the lysomal hydrolase glucocerebrosidase. Whilst bi-allelic GBA mutations cause Gaucher disease, both mono- and bi-allelic mutations confer risk for Parkinson's disease. Clinically, Parkinson's disease patients with GBA mutations resemble idiopathic Parkinson's disease patients. However, these patients have a modest reduction in age-of-onset of disease and a greater incidence of cognitive decline. In some cases, GBA mutations are also responsible for familial Parkinson's disease. The accumulation of α-synuclein into Lewy bodies is the central neuropathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease. Pathologic GBA mutations reduce enzymatic function. A reduction in glucocerebrosidase function increases α-synuclein levels and propagation, which in turn inhibits glucocerebrosidase in a feed-forward cascade. This cascade is central to the neuropathology of GBA-associated Parkinson's disease. The lysosomal integral membrane protein type-2 is necessary for normal glucocerebrosidase function. Glucocerebrosidase dysfunction also increases in the accumulation of β-amyloid and amyloid-precursor protein, oxidative stress, neuronal susceptibility to metal ions, microglial and immune activation. These factors contribute to neuronal death. The Mendelian Parkinson's disease genes, Parkin and ATP13A2, intersect with glucocerebrosidase. These factors sketch a complex circuit of GBA-associated neuropathology. To clinically interfere with this circuit, central glucocerebrosidase function must be improved. Strategies based on reducing breakdown of mutant glucocerebrosidase and increasing the fraction that reaches the lysosome has shown promise. Breakdown can be reduced by interfering with the ability of heat-shock proteins to recognize mutant glucocerebrosidase. This underlies the therapeutic efficacy of certain pharmacological chaperones and histone deacetylase inhibitors. These therapies are promising for Parkinson's disease, regardless of mutation status. Recently, there has been a boom in studies investigating the role of glucocerebrosidase in the pathology of Parkinson's disease. This merits a comprehensive review of the current cell biological processes and pathological pictures involving Parkinson's disease associated with GBA mutations.
Most cases of Parkinson's disease (PD) are idiopathic, but some characteristics, such as early onset or a positive family history, raise suspicions of an inherited form of the disease. In the last decades several genes have been linked to parkinsonism, with different patterns of inheritance and different clinical phenotypes. Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging has helped to characterize genetic-linked parkinsonism, thanks to the availability of dopaminergic and nondopaminergic tracers. On the other hand, investigation of molecular changes in mutation carriers, even at preclinical stages, has provided a deeper comprehension of the pathogenesis of PD and of the compensatory mechanisms that take place in the very early stages of the disease.
In this case study, we describe the symptoms, neurological examination, test results, and brain pathology of a man with Parkinson's disease (PD). PD commonly presents with tremor or changes in one's ability to walk or move. Other major difficulties caused by this disease include rigidity of the body, slowness of movement, and postural imbalance. The disease symptoms principally result from the degeneration of a specific population of neuronal cells in the brain stem, in a region called the pars compacta of the substantia nigra. Pathology shows the loss of these cells and the appearance of characteristic neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions called Lewy bodies, which are composed principally of aggregated alpha-synuclein protein.
Selenium (Se), an essential trace mineral, confers its physiological functions mainly through selenoproteins, most of which are oxidoreductases. Results from animal, epidemiological, and human genetic studies link Parkinson's disease to Se and certain selenoproteins. Parkinson's disease is characterized by multiple motor and non-motor symptoms that are difficult to diagnose at early stages of the pathogenesis. While irreversible, degenerative and age-related, the onset of Parkinson's disease may be delayed through proper dietary and environmental controls. One particular attribute of Se biology is that brain has the highest priority to receive and retain this nutrient even in Se deficiency. Thus, brain Se deficiency is rare; however, a strong body of recent evidence implicates selenoprotein dysfunction in Parkinson's disease. Direct and indirect evidence from mouse models implicate selenoprotein T, glutathione peroxidase 1, selenoprotein P and glutathione peroxidase 4 in counteracting Parkinson's disease through Se transportation to the brain and reduced oxidative stress. It is of future interest to further characterize the full selenoproteomes in various types of brain cells and elucidate the mechanism of their actions in Parkinson's disease.
The development of disease modifying strategies in Parkinson's disease (PD) largely depends on the ability to identify suitable populations after accurate diagnostic work-up. Therefore, patient molecular profiling and disease subtyping are mandatory. Thus far, in clinical trials, PD has been considered to be a "single entity". Conversely, in front of the common feature of nigro-striatal degeneration, PD is pathogenically heterogeneous with a series of several biological and molecular pathways that differently contribute to clinical development and progression. Currently available diagnostic criteria for PD mainly rely on clinical features and imaging biomarkers, thus missing to identify the contribution of pathophysiological pathways, also failing to catch abnormalities occurring in the early stages of disease. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is a promising source of biomarkers, with the high potential for reflecting early changes occurring in PD brain. In this review, we provide an overview on CSF biomarkers in PD, discussing their association with different molecular pathways involved either in pathophysiology or progression in detail. Their potential application in the field of disease modifying treatments is also discussed.
The most effective pharmacologic intervention used to treat motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease is levodopa, which is available in various formulations, including newer continuous subcutaneous infusions. Dopamine agonists, monoamine oxidase-B enzyme inhibitors, catechol-O-methyltransferase enzyme inhibitors, amantadine, istradefylline, and anticholinergics can be used as adjuncts to levodopa. With disease progression, pharmacologic interventions alone may not suffice to manage motor symptoms, making it necessary to consider device-aided therapies (eg, levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel infusion, continuous subcutaneous infusions of apomorphine, levodopa, or foslevodopa) or invasive surgical techniques (eg, deep brain stimulation or MRI-guided high-frequency focused ultrasound).
Non-motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) have become increasingly recognized as central to the disease. These include somatic symptoms, such as pain and autonomic dysfunction (bladder dysfunction, constipation, dipahoresis and orthostatic hypotension) and behavioral problems, such as dementia, depression, fatigue, sleep disorders and psychosis. Research on fatigue has focused on its epidemiology with only a single report of a beneficial treatment trial, which used methylphenidate. This review was made of all articles related to fatigue in Parkinson's disease arising in PUBMED. It will cover the types of fatigue, epidemiology, pathophysiology and treatment of fatigue in PD. Fatigue is a common and severe problem in Parkinson's disease. Virtually nothing is known about it aside from its epidemiology. It is an area greatly in need of investigation.
Parkinson's disease is the second most common neurodegenerative illness diagnosed in the United States. Dementia is recognized as a common component of advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). In patients with early PD, cognitive changes occur and primarily reflect impairment in executive function. It is unknown if the early cognitive changes detected on neuropsychological testing in Parkinson's disease are predictive of the subsequent development of Parkinson's disease with dementia (PDD). Many patients with PD develop dementia characterized by a wide range of cognitive deficits distinct from those seen in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Neuropsychiatric problems frequently accompany PDD. This chapter reviews the epidemiology, clinical characteristics of early and late cognitive changes, pathology, neuroimaging, diagnosis, and treatment of PDD.
Depression, a leading cause of disability worldwide, is also the most prevalent psychiatric problem among Parkinson disease patients. Both depression and Parkinson disease are associated with microstructural anomalies in the brain. Diffusion tensor imaging techniques have been developed to characterize the abnormalities in cerebral tissue. We included 11 studies investigating brain microstructural abnormalities in depressed Parkinson's disease patients. The included studies found alterations to essential brain structural networks, including impaired network integrity for specific cortical regions, such as the temporal and frontal cortices. Additionally, findings indicate that microstructural changes in specific limbic structures, such as the prefronto-temporal regions and connecting white matter pathways, are altered in depressed Parkinson's disease compared to non-depressed Parkinson's disease and healthy controls. There remain inconsistencies between studies reporting DTI measures and depression severity in Parkinson disease participants. Additional research evaluating underlying neurobiological relationships between major depression, depressed Parkinson's disease, and non-depressed Parkinson's disease is required to disentangle further mechanisms that underlie depression and related somatic symptoms, in Parkinson disease.
To review the aetiology, diagnosis, and management of Parkinson's disease, with a local perspective. Medline from 1966 onwards, and all major neurological journals and movement disorder journals were searched for evidence on the aetiology, diagnosis, and management of Parkinson's disease. Key words for the literature search were "Parkinson's disease" and "Chinese" or "Hong Kong". All relevant articles in English were reviewed. The number of promising genes for familial Parkinson's disease is still expanding rapidly and there has been a wealth of studies on susceptibility genes for Parkinson's disease. Potential treatment choices include the use of agents thought to be neuroprotective, symptomatic treatment with drugs or surgery, and non-pharmacological treatments. Pharmacological treatment using a dopa-sparing strategy and continuous dopaminergic stimulation is now gaining support to address the issue of long-term motor complications. Surgical treatment with deep brain stimulation is safe and effective for refractory cases and has been increasingly utilised locally. Medical therapy remains the mainstay of treatment and newer agents and treatment approaches are emerging, which will hopefully address the issue of neuroprotection and provide symptomatic treatment with fewer motor complications.

We describe two patients with prominent hand deformities attributable to Parkinson's disease. This uncommon condition, which mimics inflammatory arthritis, can be hard to diagnose and is disabling. As these two cases illustrate, hand deformities attributable to Parkinson's can be a late complication of the disease or present in the early stage as initial symptomatology.
We review the recent progress in the research of the etiology, pathogenesis and treatment of Parkinson's disease. It has been postulated that mitochondrial respiratory failure and oxidative stress are two major contributors to nigral cell death in Parkinson's disease. Loss of mitochondrial complex I and the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex in the substantia nigra has been reported. Evidence to indicate oxidative stress includes a high dopamine content, increase in superoxide dismutase activities, increase in iron, and decrease in glutathione in the substantia nigra. The question posed is which one occurs first. We believe mitochondrial respiratory failure occurs first, because slowing down of the electron transport induces an increase in the formation of activated oxygen species. The primary cause of Parkinson's disease is still unknown, but we believe the interaction of environmental toxins and genetic predispositions is important. In this respect, molecular genetic studies on familial Parkinson's disease are very important.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder after Alzheimer's disease. Ageing is considered to be the greatest risk factor for PD, with a complex interplay between genetics and the environment. With population ageing, the prevalence of PD is expected to escalate worldwide; thus, it is of utmost importance to reduce the burden of PD. To date, there are no therapies to cure the disease, and current treatment strategies focus on the management of symptoms. Older adults often have multiple chronic diseases and geriatric syndromes, which further complicates the management of PD. Healthcare systems and care models necessary to address the broad needs of older PD patients are largely unavailable. In this New Horizon article, we discuss various aspects of PD from an ageing perspective, including disease management. We highlight recent advancements in PD therapies and discuss new care models with the potential to improve patient's quality of life.
Currently, treatment of Parkinson's disease aims at alleviating its symptoms. However development of disease-modifying drugs has been a remarkable advancement in recent years. Furthermore, clinical trials of immunotherapy against α-synuclein, a protein involved in the pathogenesis of and lesion expansion in Parkinson's disease, have been initiated. Here, the disease-modifying treatment for patients with Parkinson's disease including the current α-synuclein immunotherapy, gene therapy, protein injection therapy, and cell transplantation therapy, has been reviewed.
Parkinson's disease is now widely recognized to be a multisystem disorder affecting the brain and peripheral autonomic nerves. Extensive pathology is present in both the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system and the intrinsic gastrointestinal plexuses in patients. Autonomic pathology and symptoms such as constipation can predate the clinical diagnosis by years or decades. Imaging studies have contributed greatly to our understanding of Parkinson's disease but focused primarily on imaging cerebral pathology. However, given the importance of understanding the nature, chronology, and functional consequences of peripheral pathology, there has been renewed interest in imaging peripheral organs in Parkinson's disease. Suitable imaging tools can be divided into two types: radiotracer studies that directly estimate loss of sympathetic or parasympathetic nerve terminals, and imaging modalities to quantitate dysphagia, gastric emptying, esophageal and intestinal transit times, and anorectal dyssynergia. In this review, we summarize current knowledge about peripheral imaging in Parkinson's disease.
Voice tremor is strongly linked to the Parkinson's disease speech-voice symptom complex. Little is known about the underlying anatomic source(s) of voice tremor when it occurs. We review recent literature addressing this issue. Additionally we report findings from a study we conducted employing rating of vocal tract structures viewed using nasolaryngoscopy during vocal and nonspeech tasks. In Parkinson's disease, using laryngeal electromyography, tremor has not been identified in muscles in the vocal folds even when perceived auditorily. Preliminary findings using nasolaryngoscopy suggest that Parkinson's disease voice tremor is not associated with the vocal folds and may involve the palate, the global larynx, and the arytenoids. Tremor in the vertical larynx on /a/, and tremor in the arytenoid cartilages on /s/ differentiated patients with Parkinson's disease from neurologically healthy controls. Visual reliable detection of tremor when it is absent or borderline present, is challenging. Parkinson's disease voice tremor is likely to be related to oscillatory movement in structures across the vocal tract rather than just the vocal folds. To progress clinical practice, more refined tools for the visual rating of tremor would be beneficial. How far voice tremor represents a functionally significant factor for speakers would also add to the literature.
Parkinson's disease is a common neurodegenerative disorder affecting approximately 1% of the population over the age of 50 years. There is no known cure for Parkinson's disease, but research gains over the last two decades have been substantial, resulting in improved medications and therapeutic strategies for managing early symptoms and delaying the onset of serious disability. Particularly promising is current research suggesting the possibility of neuroprotective therapies that may ultimately be capable of slowing disease progression. Early and accurate diagnosis is especially important to optimize the benefits of new therapies.
Parkinson's disease is predominantly caused by dopaminergic neuron loss in the substantia nigra pars compacta and the accumulation of alpha-synuclein protein. Though the general consensus is that several factors, such as aging, environmental factors, mitochondrial dysfunction, accumulations of neurotoxic alpha-synuclein, malfunctions of the lysosomal and proteasomal protein degradation systems, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation, are involved in the neurodegeneration process of Parkinson's disease, the precise mechanism by which all of these factors are triggered remains unknown. Typically, neurotoxic compounds such as rotenone, 6-hydroxydopamine, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), 1-methyl 4-phenyl pyridinium (mpp<sup>+</sup>), paraquat, and maneb are used to Preclinical models of Parkinson's disease Ferulic acid is often referred to by its scientific name, 4-hydroxy-3-methoxycinnamic acid (C10H10O4), and is found naturally in cereals, fruits, vegetables, and bee products. This substance exhibits neuroprotective effects against Parkinson's disease because of its intriguing potential, which includes anti-inflammatory and antioxidant qualities. This review goes into additional detail about Parkinson's disease and the neuroprotective properties of ferulic acid that may help prevent the condition.
People with Parkinson's Disease (PwP) may be at higher risk for complications from the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (Covid-19) due to older age and to the multi-faceted nature of Parkinson's Disease (PD) per se, presenting with a variety of motor and non-motor symptoms. Those on advanced therapies may be particularly vulnerable. Taking the above into consideration, along with the potential multi-systemic impact of Covid-19 on affected patients and the complications of hospitalization, we are providing an evidence-based guidance to ensure a high standard of care for PwP affected by Covid-19 with varying severity of the condition. Adherence to the dopaminergic medication of PwP, without abrupt modifications in dosage and frequency, is of utmost importance, while potential interactions with newly introduced drugs should always be considered. Treating physicians should be cautious to acknowledge and timely address any potential complications, while consultation by a neurologist, preferably with special knowledge on movement disorders, is advised for patients admitted in non-neurological wards. Non-pharmacological approaches, including the patient's mobilization, falls prevention, good sleep hygiene, emotional support, and adequate nutritional and fluid intake, are essential and the role of telemedicine services should be strengthened and encouraged.
To critically evaluate the literature regarding the efficacy and feasibility of aquatic physiotherapy in people with Parkinson's disease. Relevant studies were identified through searches in nine health-related databases. Two independent reviewers assessed study quality using either the PEDro scale or a customised tool for safety and feasibility. Database searches yielded 88 articles, of which 10 met the inclusion criteria. Studies varied greatly in methodology, quality, interventions and outcome measures. Study quality was generally low in items reporting on safety precautions, adverse events, attrition, and adherence. Results suggest that aquatic physiotherapy may have a positive effect on motor symptoms, quality of life and balance. Aquatic physiotherapy may improve aspects of motor performance, quality of life and balance in people with Parkinson's disease, however, it remains unclear whether it is a safe and feasible treatment modality. The development of standardised outcome measures for people with Parkinson's disease (unified Parkinson's disease rating scale and Parkinson's disease questionnaire-39) would aid study comparability and validate study outcomes. As safety criteria was grossly underreported, guidelines for mandatory reporting of safety criteria are essential to make conclusions regarding the feasibility of aquatic physiotherapy for people with Parkinson's disease. Implications for Rehabilitation Aquatic physiotherapy may be a beneficial treatment modality for people with Parkinson's disease. A minimum data set that includes the unified Parkinson's disease rating scale and Parkinson's disease questionnaire 39 is required to aid future meta-analysis and to allow more definitive conclusions to be made regarding aquatic physiotherapy for people with Parkinson's disease. People with Parkinson's disease are a vulnerable population, where safety within an aquatic physiotherapy program needs to be well documented and addressed.
With a current lack of disease-modifying treatments, an initiative toward implementing a precision medicine approach for treating Parkinson's disease (PD) has emerged. However, challenges remain in how to define and apply precision medicine in PD. To accomplish the goal of optimally targeted and timed treatment for each patient, preclinical research in a diverse population of rodent models will continue to be an essential part of the translational path to identify novel biomarkers for patient diagnosis and subgrouping, understand PD disease mechanisms, identify new therapeutic targets, and screen therapeutics prior to clinical testing. This review highlights the most common rodent models of PD and discusses how these models can contribute to defining and implementing precision medicine for the treatment of PD.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most debilitating neurodegenerative movement disorder. It is characterized by the presence of fibrillar alpha-synuclein amassed in the neurons, known as Lewy bodies. Certain cellular and molecular events are involved, leading to the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. However, the origin and implication of such events are still uncertain. Nevertheless, the role of microRNAs (miRNAs) as important biomarkers and therapeutic molecules is unquestionable. The most challenging task by far in PD treatment has been its late diagnosis followed by therapeutics. miRNAs are an emerging hope to meet the need of early diagnosis, thereby promising an improved movement symptom and prolonged life of the patients. The continuous efforts in discovering the role of miRNAs could be made possible by the utilisation of various animal models of PD. These models help us understand insights into the mechanism of the disease. Moreover, miRNAs have been surfaced as therapeutically important molecules with distinct delivery systems enhancing their success rate. This review aims at providing an outline of different miRNAs implicated in either PD-associated gene regulation or involved in therapeutics.
Recent biological frameworks of Parkinson's disease (PD) rely on the new advances in α-synuclein detection in biological tissues, mostly through α-synuclein seed amplification assays, and are mainly aimed at intercepting pre-clinical or early phases of disease to be subjected to disease-modifying therapies targeting α-synuclein. However, α-synuclein pathology alone is insufficient to explain the observed clinical heterogeneity of PD. Indeed, it has been demonstrated that a number of additional elements, such as genetics, comorbidities, co-pathology, and environmental factors, may influence PD phenotype and progression. Such factors have been partially accounted for or completely overlooked by both biological frameworks and would instead represent features which could explain, at least partially, the clinical and pathophysiologic diversities of PD and further represent potential druggable targets. Recognizing that the clinical heterogeneity of PD is a window to understand the pathophysiologic complexity of the disease might turn useful for a refinement of the current biological frameworks and move the field to satisfy the unmet need of establishing a precision medicine framework for this prevalent disorder.
The history of Parkinson's disease is long and rich. Here, we discuss ancient remedies, James Parkinson's identification of the disease, Charcot's refinement of diagnostic criteria, and multiple other contributions to our current understanding. We also discuss the multiple treatment methods we have now and potential developments for the future.


This paper seeks to describe anxiety's different symptomatologic presentations in Parkinson's disease (PD), its longitudinal course and predictors, as well as its motor and non-motor correlates. It also reviews the available screening tools and different treatment modalities. In PD, longitudinal predictors of anxiety are mostly non-motor non-dopaminergic symptoms. The longitudinal course of anxiety is mainly a stable one. The Parkinson Anxiety Scale and the Geriatric Anxiety Scale are the 2 recommended screening tools. A third of PD patients suffer from an anxiety disorder at any time point. It can precede or follow PD motor symptoms. Anxiety is associated with demographic, disease-related motor and non-motor features. There is a lack of studies evaluating psychotropic treatment of anxiety in PD. Adjustment of dopaminergic treatment is indicated when anxiety is associated with motor fluctuations. DBS can be useful as well as CBT and body-mind interventions.
Parkinson's disease is a common neurodegenerative disorder associated with aging. After essential tremor, it is the most common movement disorder of the elderly. Parkinson's disease is the most common disabling movement disorder. This article reviews the major clinical features, differential diagnosis, approach to diagnosis, and initial management of Parkinson's disease.
In recent years, the development of new therapies and improvements in our understanding of older therapies have led to changes in the management of Parkinson's disease. However, current Norwegian and international therapy recommendations present a range of different options as being equally viable. In this clinical review, we propose an updated algorithm for the medical treatment of motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease, based on evidence-based recommendations and our own personal experience and opinions.
Over the last century three central points have become the orthodox dogma accepted and taught by those who study Parkinson's Disease. These are: Parkinson's Disease is one disease. Lewy bodies in the substantia nigra are an acceptable hallmark of Parkinson's Disease. Lewy bodies are responsible for the death of nigral neurons in Parkinson's Disease. Each of these tenets now present difficulties, and we are beginning to enter an era in which we must look critically at the current evidence to decide whether each dictum can be sustained.

Parkinson's disease is a frequent neurodegenerative disease that is mostly known for its motor symptoms. However, cognitive impairment is now recognised as an important part of the disease. Studies of cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease reveal considerable heterogeneity in terms of which cognitive domains are impaired, and of how cognitive impairment progresses over time. In parallel, a growing body of research reports language difficulties in Parkinson's disease, more specifically in the domains of sentence processing and lexical-semantic processing. In this review, the performance of patients with Parkinson's disease in these domains of language will be reviewed with a focus on the links that they have with the rest of cognition and on how they could contribute to the earlier and more precise characterization and prediction of cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease. More specifically, the potential for modulation of complexity and sensitivity of language tasks to mild deficits and difficulties that are predictive of further decline will be emphasized. Other motivations for studying language difficulties in this disease will also be discussed.
Gastrointestinal dysfunction is highly prevalent in Parkinson's disease and may precede motor symptoms by more than a decade. It has been proposed that the neurodegenerative cascade may actually be initiated in the gut with subsequent spreading to the brain and that gut microbiota could be involved in this process. This review provides a short introduction into the methodology of microbiome-wide association studies and discusses the recently published first comprehensive assessments of gut microbiota in Parkinson's disease. Three case-control studies have studied gut microbiota composition in Parkinson's disease and all found significant differences between Parkinson's disease patients and controls. However, most of the differentially abundant taxa as well as associations of microbiota with clinical variables differed between studies. This may at least in part be explained by methodological differences between studies in terms of selection of participants, analysis pipelines, statistical analysis, and confounder control. Current evidence suggests that there are alterations of gut microbiota in Parkinson's disease, but the exact nature of these changes is not established. Future larger studies should assess gut microbiota in Parkinson's disease covering diverse geographical regions, ethnicities, disease stages, and phenotypes using well-defined selection criteria for patients and controls and standardized methodology.
With the advent of systems biological concepts there has been a surge of interest in biological factors, or biomarkers that can be measured and which allow the identification of individuals at risk. Biomarkers for Parkinson's disease have been identified which provide evidence of systemic metabolic dysregulation in this disorder. Such biomarkers can be studied in blood, serum and plasma but also in CSF and urine, and the study by Hoepken et al. in this issue has even made use of skin fibroblasts. The authors report on the induction of alpha-synuclein expression and suggest that the expression changes described might potentially allow objective PD patient diagnosis in an accessible, peripheral tissue. This mini-review aims to provide a broader perspective on PD functional genomics and seeks to illustrate in a systems biological context why the findings by Hoepken and colleagues are of clinical significance.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs), one kind of post-transcriptional modification, mediate transcriptional silencing of various metabolic enzymes that are involved in various life processes, including Parkinson's disease. At present, the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease is not clear, although many studies suggest that miRNAs play a very important role in the progress of Parkinsonism. This paper reviews the biological characteristics of miRNAs and summarizes the progress of miRNAs in reference to the diagnosis and pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. It even considers miRNAs as a potential target for Parkinson's disease therapy.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder that is largely diagnosed and managed clinically. Biomarkers, as indicators of underlying biological processes, offer the potential to identify individuals at risk for PD, screen new therapies, assist in the diagnosis and help optimize management of PD. However, to date, biomarkers, despite their considerable promise, have had limited utility in clinical trials and practice.
Pharmacotherapy with levodopa for Parkinson's disease provides symptomatic benefit, but fluctuations in (or loss of) response may eventually occur. Dopamine agonists are also helpful and, when taken with low doses of levodopa, often provide sustained benefit with fewer side effects; novel agonists and new methods for their administration are therefore under study. Other therapeutic strategies are being explored, including the use of type B monoamine oxidase inhibitors to reduce the metabolic breakdown of dopamine, catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitors to retard the breakdown of levodopa, norepinephrine precursors to compensate for deficiency of this neurotransmitter, glutamate antagonists to counteract the effects of the subthalamic nucleus, and various neurotrophic factors to influence dopaminergic nigrostriatal cells. Surgical procedures involving pallidotomy are sometimes helpful. Those involving cerebral transplantation of adrenal medullary or fetal mesencephalic tissue have yielded mixed results; benefits may relate to the presence of growth factors in the transplanted tissue. The transplantation of genetically engineered cell lines will probably become the optimal transplantation procedure. The cause of Parkinson's disease may relate to oxidant stress and the generation of free radicals. It is not clear whether treatment with selegiline hydrochloride (a type B monoamine oxidase inhibitor) delays the progression of Parkinson's disease, because the drug also exerts a mild symptomatic effect. Daily treatment with vitamin E (a scavenger of free radicals) does not influence disease progression, perhaps because of limited penetration into the brain.
Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative progressive disorder with a prevalence of 1% in the population above 65 years of age. Thus, Parkinson's disease (PD) is 5 times less common than senile dementia of the Alzheimer type (SDAT). This article summarizes an epidemoliogical door to door survey on the prevalence of Parkinson syndromes in two German villages. It reviews the present possibilities to diagnose Parkinson's disease clinically and with pharmacological and imaging techniques. As 10-30% of Parkinson's disease patients become demented in the course of the disease, the question is addressed, how Parkinson's disease relates to SDAT. In addition, it is discussed, whether a global or focal deficit of cognitive function is present in Parkinson's disease. Finally, a new imaging technique based on the visualisation of dopamine uptake sites in the striatum by single photon computed emission tomography is presented. This technique may allow to diagnose Parkinson's disease in the very early clinical and may be even preclinical phase.
Parkinson's disease was first described in 1817 by James Parkinson. It is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders, affecting the nigrostriatal pathways involved in the control of movement. Since the introduction of L-DOPA as a therapy in the mid-1960s, clinical management of the symptoms has progressed, but, at present, it remains impossible to stop the disease progression or to restore lost functions. A better understanding of neurodegeneration and of midbrain neuronal development has allowed the development of new pharmaceutical compounds with neuroprotective properties and has shown the potential of neurone replacement therapies in Parkinson's disease. Even though major obstacles remain before these can be transferred to the clinic, the progress made in the last 10 years brings hope of improved therapies for Parkinson's disease. In this paper we review the current knowledge of Parkinson's disease including its etiology, some of the current symptomatic therapeutic modalities, and recent progress in neuroprotective and cell replacement therapies.
Genetic and epidemiological studies are critical to understanding the etiology of Parkinson's Disease (PD), and may lead to rational treatments for the disease. This article reviews the clinical features, epidemiology and genetics of PD, with emphasis on insights from recent genetic and epidemiological studies.



Parkinson's disease (PD) was first described by James Parkinson in 1817. He noted the complex nature of this condition and that non-motor symptoms (NMS) underpinned the classic motor symptoms of PD. The concept of what PD is has therefore undergone substantial changes and it is now recognised that PD is a combined motor and non-motor syndrome and NMS are present during the prodromal phase of PD, starting up to 20 years before the first clinical motor signs emerge. PD may originate from pathology in the gut, olfactory bulb and lower brainstem rather than in the substantia nigra. Complex phenotypes of PD may exist where clinical NMS overshadow motor features. Therapy needs to be adjusted based on motor and non-motor loads, ideally using validated tools. Recently, a multimodal biomarker battery in PD has emerged and might play an important role in the future.
The 2014 Lasker-DeBakey Clinical Medical Research Award -one of three prestigious awards granted by the Lasker Foundation in recognition of scientists, clinicians and public servants who have made major advances in the understanding, diagnosis, treatment, cure or prevention of human disease- has been granted to two pioneers in the field of Parkinson's disease therapy. In spite of the availability of more than two dozen drugs and fixed-dose combination products to treat the symptoms of Parkinson's disease -most notably the gold standard levodopa, a dopamine precursor- as well as nonpharmacological treatments like deep brain stimulation, many patients do not respond to available drugs or experience breakthrough symptoms, and the disease is ultimately uncurable. This article reviews currently available therapies as well as biomarkers and novel diagnostics.
The purpose of this review is to draw up a statement on current knowledge available on perioperative management of Parkinson's disease patients. Review. In France, approximately 150,000 persons suffer from Parkinson's disease, a neurodegenerative disorder of central nervous system. Parkinson's disease results in selective and irreversible loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Medications based on dopaminergic drugs are used to control motor symptoms and improve motor function. Development of surgical approach, especially deep brain stimulation, has revolutionized the medical management of many patients with Parkinson's disease. Anesthesia of these patients remains a challenge for the clinician. The aim of this review is to describe anaesthetic considerations of patients with Parkinson's disease and to discuss management of antiparkinsonians medications during the perioperative period.

Neuropsychiatric symptoms including depression, apathy and psychosis occur frequently in patients with Parkinson's disease. A subgroup of patients develop cognitive impairment, which may increase the risk of falls due to reduced attention. The acetylcholinesterase inhibitor rivastigmine is beneficial in Parkinson's disease dementia, but whether the use of rivastigmine is effective earlier in the disease course is unclear. The aim of this systematic review was to assess the evidence for rivastigmine in the treatment of neuropsychiatric symptoms in Parkinson's disease without dementia. Embase, Medline, PsychINFO, Cochrane CENTRAL, NGLC, National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Evidence and medRxiv.org were searched for studies with terms relating to population (Parkinson's disease) and intervention (rivastigmine). Of 1922 references identified, 358 were duplications. Following title and abstract review, 1331 articles were excluded. After full-text review, nine articles remained. Outcomes were heterogenous, therefore, the results are presented in narrative form. The articles included six randomized controlled trials, two open-label trials and one case series. Outcome measures included: time to develop psychosis; frequency of rapid eye movement sleep behaviour disorder (RBD) episodes; apathy; gait variability; falls; cognitive ability; Neuropsychiatric Inventory score; and regional spontaneous brain activity. There is evidence that rivastigmine is beneficial for RBD and apathy in Parkinson's disease patients without dementia. There is high level evidence that rivastigmine reduces falls, which may be due to improved attention. The impact of rivastigmine on psychotic symptoms is less clear, but is supported by current theoretical models which involve acetylcholine dysfunction in the generation of visual hallucinations in Parkinson's disease.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by motor, autonomic, and neuropsychiatric symptoms. These occur in varying degrees in all stages of the disease. Among the autonomic disorders, cardiovascular, urogenital, gastrointestinal and thermoregulatory disorders are the most relevant. Within cardiovascular disorders drop of blood pressure after orthostasis and non-dipper behavior are very important; but also the influence of cardiovascular medication. Urgency, nocturia, and incontinence are of particular note within the urological problems. Among the gastrointestinal disturbances, swallowing disorders, gastric emptying disorders and constipation are particularly noteworthy. Areas covered: Autonomic symptoms are inherent in PD, in premotor and all other stages of the disease. In this overview, the current status was summarized taking into account original articles and reviews based on relevance to the field and quality of evidence. Expert commentary: The involvement of the autonomic nervous system in Parkinson's disease is still neglected. Because of the significant effects on the quality of life and even the prognosis, appropriate diagnostics and therapy should be performed at all stages of the disease. Despite intensive scientific work the area is still not sufficiently considered and the relevance in pathology is not yet understood.
Placebo treatment is associated with clinical improvements in many medical conditions, but is particularly important in Parkinson's disease because improvements are common, marked, and associated with objective neurochemical and neurophysiologic changes. This review will focus on the effect of the placebo in patients with PD and will discuss the pathophysiology, observed characteristics of motor and nonmotor placebo responses, and the patient and study characteristics that modify the placebo response. Similar to the placebo response, nocebo and lessebo effects alter clinical trial outcomes and impact conclusions. Whereas placebo-associated improvements are positively viewed by patients in clinical practice, they complicate clinical trials. The authors suggest strategies to reduce placebo effects during randomized placebo-controlled trials evaluating new therapies. © 2018 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
Copper is a transition metal that has been linked to pathological and beneficial effects in neurodegenerative diseases. In Parkinson's disease, free copper is related to increased oxidative stress, alpha-synuclein oligomerization, and Lewy body formation. Decreased copper along with increased iron has been found in substantia nigra and caudate nucleus of Parkinson's disease patients. Copper influences iron content in the brain through ferroxidase ceruloplasmin activity; therefore decreased protein-bound copper in brain may enhance iron accumulation and the associated oxidative stress. The function of other copper-binding proteins such as Cu/Zn-SOD and metallothioneins is also beneficial to prevent neurodegeneration. Copper may regulate neurotransmission since it is released after neuronal stimulus and the metal is able to modulate the function of NMDA and GABA A receptors. Some of the proteins involved in copper transport are the transporters CTR1, ATP7A, and ATP7B and the chaperone ATOX1. There is limited information about the role of those biomolecules in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease; for instance, it is known that CTR1 is decreased in substantia nigra pars compacta in Parkinson's disease and that a mutation in ATP7B could be associated with Parkinson's disease. Regarding copper-related therapies, copper supplementation can represent a plausible alternative, while copper chelation may even aggravate the pathology.
Neurological aspects of Parkinson's disease including symptomology, etiology, and chemotherapy are briefly reviewed. Recent developments in each area are also presented. Clinical considerations relevant to neuropsychological testing with the Parkinson's disease patient are discussed in terms of confounds that may hinder the accuracy of test result interpretation.
Impulsive-compulsive behaviours are common, quality of life affecting consequences of dopamine replacement therapy which are well recognized in patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease. Details of the occurrence and nature of these disorders in the atypical parkinsonian neurodegenerative disorders, and in non-Parkinson's patients prescribed dopaminergic stimulation for other disease processes, are slowly emerging. Here we review what is known about the phenomenology, epidemiology and risk factors for impulsive-compulsive behaviours in Parkinson's disease and in other, less well studied, patient groups. By analyzing the available published data, this review identifies potential clues as to the underlying neurobiological mechanism of these disorders, and further identifies critical gaps yet to be addressed.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common forms of neurodegenerative disease in the elderly population and is typically manifested by motor symptoms and nonmotor symptoms and signs. Nonmotor symptoms, such as sensory symptoms, have been regarded as the significant features of this disease. These symptoms often occur in early stages of PD and influence quality of life. However, researchers suggest that the sensory symptoms of PD are frequently unrecognized by clinicians and remain untreated. The disorders include pain, olfactory disturbance, and visual dysfunction input on the underlying sensory abnormality. This Review focuses on the clinical features, pathophysiological mechanisms, and treatment strategies for sensory symptoms of PD from both clinical studies and basic research, providing a comprehensive overview of the sensory symptoms in PD. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder characterized by pathological changes, including the loss of dopaminergic neurons and abnormal aggregation of α-synuclein (α-syn). Certain cellular and molecular events are involved; however, the origin and significance of these events remain uncertain. The discovery of microRNAs (miRNAs) predicted to play a pivotal role in various regulatory processes has emerged. Studies on the dysregulation of miRNAs in PD pathogenesis, diagnosis, and treatment have recently gained attention. This review aims to encapsulate recent research developments concerning the function of miRNAs in the pathophysiology of PD and their prospective applications as diagnostic and therapeutic biomarkers, targets, and pharmaceuticals. The most effective drug delivery approach for the treatment of PD, transnasal-cerebral drug delivery, has also been briefly described. The advantage of this delivery strategy is its capacity to bypass the blood-brain barrier, enabling direct administration of medication to the brain, which improves therapeutic efficacy and minimizes side effects.
Parkinson's disease is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder of unknown etiology. There are sparse data on gender differences in this disorder, but it is clear that there are gender discrepancies in incidence, symptoms, medication effects and treatments. There also appear to be lifecycle fluctuations in the disease course of female Parkinson's disease patients. The effect of estrogen in this disorder is multifold and its role in the development and treatment of PD will be discussed.
Paralysis agitans was first documented in 1817 by James Parkinson, and therefore the syndrome was named Parkinson's disease (PD). In fact, as early as more than 2000 years ago, the clinical manifestations of this disease have been described in Chinese medicine classics, such as the "Huangdi Neijing (Yellow Emperor's Internal Classic)" and "Zhong Zang Jing (Hua's Zhong Zang Classic)." In recent years, especially in the past 30 years after reform and opening-up, PD has drawn a lot of attention by Chinese scholars. Although great progress in the studies of PD has been made in recent years, the gap between China and western countries still exists. In this review, we concentrate on the main progress made in epidemic characteristics, etiology, diagnosis and management of PD in China.
This paper examines fresh the evidence for an inverse relationship between smoking behaviour and Parkinson's disease. The frequent epidemiological observation, that the relative risk of a smoker having Parkinson's disease is approximately 0.5 that of a non-smoker, is fairly well established. Possible explanations are examined in the light of available epidemiological and biochemical evidence. Despite much biochemical work suggesting a protective role for cigarette smoke against the development of Parkinson's disease, the epidemiological data points away from such a mechanism. Instead, the epidemiological work favours two alternative hypotheses: either that there is selective mortality of smokers with Parkinson's disease such that their conditions deteriorate and death occurs at an accelerated rate (resulting in fewer smokers with Parkinson's disease-especially in the older age groups when Parkinson's disease is most common), or that the latent phase of Parkinson's disease (before symptoms become apparent) involves subtle personality changes producing the so-called Parkinsonian personality and an associated aversion to cigarette smoking. The latter changes may be a consequence of progressive nigrostriatal dopamine depletion resulting eventually in Parkinson's disease. Future approaches that would allow a more definitive understanding of the processes underlying the intriguing link between smoking and Parkinson's disease are considered.
In 15 years, we will mark the 200th anniversary of the James Parkinson's original description of the disease that now bears his name (An Essay on the Shaking Palsy, Sherwood, Neely and Jones London, 1817). Perhaps, one of the most exciting but daunting questions we face at this moment is whether or not we can unravel the etiology of the disease by that time. If we are to accomplish such an ambitious goal, we must determine the resources that will be required to make it happen, and identify the areas of scientific focus that should receive the greatest attention. One issue that will have great bearing on the allocation of research resources relates to the relative roles of genes versus environment in disease causation. For reasons that will become clear in this article, this has a remained surprisingly controversial area. Ironically, this controversy has even spilled over to the very definition of Parkinson's disease, and even whether or not it should be considered a disease entity. In this article, the enduring "genes versus environment" debate is reviewed, with a goal of putting it into a broader perspective. Issues surrounding disease definition and terminology are also addressed in detail, because of the need to have clarity of thought and vision if research on the cause is to proceed in an orderly (and hopefully expeditious) manner. Finally, issues relating future research directions are summarized, with the goal of identifying the pieces of the Parkinson's puzzle that are going to have to be put together if we are to solve this mysterious disease.
Cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease is heterogeneous both in severity and pattern and subject to influences both integral to and external to the disease. Diagnostic Criteria have been developed by the Movement Disorders Society that help to guide clinicians and researchers to an accurate diagnosis of Parkinson's disease - mild cognitive impairment or Parkinson's disease dementia. To operationalize these criteria, and to assess the pattern and severity of cognitive dysfunction we need: (1) Valid measures of cognitive abilities covering the major domains of cognition, (2) amethod to determine whether or not the performance represents a decline from a person's previous level of functioning, and (3) an assessment of how the individual's cognitive abilities enable (or disable) function in day to day activities. This paper will discuss the methods of assessment and the measures that can be used to make a comprehensive assessment of cognition in Parkinson's disease.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the most common neurodegenerative movement disorder, affecting over 6 million people worldwide. It is anticipated that the number of affected individuals may increase significantly in the most populous nations by 2030. During the past 20 years, much progress has been made in identifying and assessing various potential clinical, biochemical, imaging and genetic biomarkers for PD. Despite the wealth of information, development of a validated biomarker for PD is still ongoing. It is hoped that reliable and well-validated biomarkers will provide critical clues to assist in the diagnosis and management of Parkinson's disease patients in the near future.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive degenerative disorder that leads to disabling motor symptoms and a wide variety of neuropsychiatric symptoms. Apathy is the most common psychiatric disorder in the early stages of untreated PD and can be defined as a hypodopaminergic syndrome, which also includes anxiety and depression. Apathy is also considered the core feature of the parkinsonian triad (apathy, anxiety and depression) of behavioural non-motor signs, including a motivational deficit. Moreover, apathy is recognised as a distinct chronic neuropsychiatric behavioural disorder based on specific diagnostic criteria. Given the prevalence of apathy in approximately 40% of the general Parkinson's disease population, this appears to be a contributing factor to dementia in PD; also, apathy symptoms are factors that potentially contribute to morbidity, leading to a major impairment of health-related quality of life, thus stressing the importance of understanding the pathophysiology of this disease. Several studies have clearly established a prominent role for DA-mediated signals in PD apathy. However, synergistic interaction between dopaminergic impairment resulting from the neurodegenerative process and deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus may cause or exacerbate apathy. Furthermore, serotoninergic mechanism signalling is also likely to be of importance in this pathophysiology.
Parkinson's disease is a common neurodegenerative disorder mainly caused by the loss of nigral dopaminergic neurons, of which the pathogenesis remains essentially unknown. Current therapeutic strategies help manage signs and symptoms but have no effect in disease modification. Over the past several decades, scientists have devoted a lot of effort to clarifying the pathological mechanism and searching for new targets for Parkinson's disease treatment. Treatment of Parkinson's disease. Expert Commentary: Illustrated in this review are newly found discoveries and evidence that contribute to the understanding of Parkinson's disease pathogenic mechanism. Also discussed are potential therapeutic strategies that are being studied, including disease-modifying and genetically mediated small molecule compounds, cell- and gene-based therapeutic strategies, immunization strategies and anti-diabetic therapy, which may be very promising therapeutic methods in the future.
The identification of the widespread deposition of fibrillized α-synuclein in Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites in the brains of patients with Parkinson's disease in 1997 has had a profound impact on how the disease is now conceptualized. The previous focus on the loss of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal system, the concept of subcortical dementia, and the idea that Parkinson's disease was dominated by motor impairment have all given way to research assessing more diverse brain regions, clinical symptoms, and phenotypes. It is now recognized that Parkinson's disease is more than just a loss of midbrain dopaminergic neurons in association with Lewy bodies. There are now several theories on how the disease develops and progresses currently being validated in a variety of studies, although many of these theories have yet to incorporate the phenotypic clinical and pathological changes associated with age. A particularly exciting new area of research involves the cell-to-cell transmission of pathogenic proteins. The recent consensus definition of Parkinson's disease dementia will allow its pathologic substrates to be determined. These advances have progressed to a stage where the preclinical stages of Parkinson's disease and its specific signs and symptoms are being predicted and tested clinically. Such strategies herald a future wave of preventive strategies for Parkinson's disease and its clinical symptoms.
At least 300,000 people with idiopathic Parkinson's disease are living in Germany. Due to the demographic change the number of affected patients is expected to increase continuously. This article presents the evidence-based diagnostics and therapy of idiopathic Parkinson's disease. It provides an overview especially on new findings and developments in recent years.
In the past 18 months, several important studies on the epidemiology of Parkinson's disease have been published. In particular, large cohorts have identified sufficient incident patients with Parkinson's disease to study risk or protective factors of Parkinson's disease; one of the important recent events in the field is the publication of some of their findings. We will first review findings of descriptive studies on the frequency of the disease and its geographic or temporal distribution. We will then summarize the findings of analytical studies dealing with risk or protective factors in the fields of dietary and lifestyle factors (cigarette smoking, coffee and tea drinking, uric acid, dairy products), environmental exposures (pesticides, lead, manganese, welding), hormonal factors (oophorectomy), vascular risk factors (diabetes, hypertension, cholesterol level), pharmacoepidemiology (NSAIDs, statins), and familial aggregation. Epidemiologic studies have consistently found that some exposures are inversely (e.g., cigarette smoking) or positively associated with Parkinson's disease (e.g., pesticides), while their findings are, at the present time, less consistent for other exposures (e.g., NSAIDs, vascular risk factors). Finally, recent studies have investigated new research fields (e.g., hormonal factors, uric acid, pharmacoepidemiology) and additional data need to be collected.
We are now entering a period when the process of unraveling the puzzles of 'Parkinson's Disease' has generated a mass of information that does not fit into our traditional concepts. Having split off 'Progressive Supranuclear Palsy' and 'Multiple System Atrophy', we are faced with the dilemma of what to do with the various forms of Parkinsonism caused by a number of different mutations, and how to interpret pathological heterogeneity. Faced with these new questions, it is time to reconsider how 'Parkinson's Disease' is to be defined.
The success of levodopa and other classes of drugs have meant that most people with Parkinson's disease enjoy a good quality of life for many years. However, despite the availability of several drugs and formulations that can be used as monotherapy and in combination, there are a number of disease features that the current therapies are unable to address. The disease continues to progress despite treatment, patients suffer from a myriad of motor and non-motor symptoms, and a neuroprotective therapy is urgently required. To move forward with medical and surgical management, it is important to consider new insights that recent research offers and in this review we examine how a better understanding of the disease pathology and progression might improve and enrich our daily clinical practice. It is also timely to consider the service provision changes that will increasingly be needed to effectively manage the needs of the aging population.
Metabolic syndrome is becoming commoner due to a rise in obesity rates among adults. Generally speaking, a person with metabolic syndrome is twice as likely to develop cardiovascular disease and five times as likely to develop diabetes as someone without metabolic syndrome. Increasing oxidative stress in metabolic syndrome and Parkinson's disease is mentioned in the comprehensive articles; however, the system review about clear relation between metabolic syndrome and Parkinson's disease is deficient. In this review, we will focus on the analysis that the metabolic syndrome may be a risk factor for Parkinson's disease and the preventions that reduce the incident of Parkinson's disease by regulating the oxidative stress.
Although Parkinson's disease (PD) is the only chronic neurodegenerative disorder for which there are effective symptomatic therapies no treatment has yet been identified that would significantly slow its natural progression. Studies into the natural history of Parkinson's disease have been complicated by issues of diagnostic accuracy, heterogeneity of different forms of the disease as well as confounding effects of age related comorbidities. Only recently results from placebo-controlled clinical trials have helped to define the rates of progression of motor dysfunction as assessed by the UPDRS in early PD. Studies in treated patients suggest that there may be different rates of progression in different phases of the disease with faster decline in earlier versus later stages. Measuring progression of motor symptoms, however, alone is insufficient to describe the natural history of PD and may also be inadequate to define clinically meaningful disease modification in intervention trials. Progression of global disability as captured in the Hoehn and Yahr scale is important to consider and progression to stage III with beginning postural impairment defines a major milestone in the natural history of this illness. In addition, non-motor symptoms have major impact on the natural history of PD. Dementia, sleep-wake cycle dysregulation and autonomic failure were present in 50-80% of patients in one recent 15 year-follow up study. Dementia and psychosis are also major risk factors for nursing home placement in PD. A prerequisite for effective interventions that would modify disease progression in Parkinson's disease is the identification of the earliest preclinical stages of illness. This is now become a realistic possibility with screening tests of olfactory function and subsequent functional imaging. Subjects at risk for Parkinson's disease should be the future focus of neuroprotective trials.


Parkinson's disease is most common degenerative disorder. Diagnosis is clinical in majority of the patients. Small number of patients have family history and several types of familial Parkinson's disease is now known. Most of the patients have onset of symptoms in sixth decade. Response to dopa agonists and L-dopa is good and there are different reasons to choose any of the drug as first line treatment. Motor fluctuation presenting as wearing off and dyskinesias are main challenges in long term management.

Recent advancements in neurology have shifted focus from mere diagnosis to comprehensive management of movement disorders, particularly Parkinson's Disease (PD), which is rapidly increasing in prevalence due to global ageing trends. While age is a key risk factor for PD, centenarians often exhibit a remarkably low prevalence of the disease, presenting an intriguing paradox. This viewpoint explores potential reasons for this low prevalence, drawing on studies from regions with high centenarian populations, known as Blue Zones. The authors highlight the importance of genetic, lifestyle, and environmental factors in promoting healthy ageing and examines how these may contribute to the resilience against PD found in centenarians. By understanding the protective mechanisms in centenarians, particularly the concept of hormesis and factors like diet, exercise, and social connections, we may inform prevention strategies for PD. The study proposes the "EAT, MOVE, SLEEP, PROTECT, and REPEAT" approach as a framework for lifestyle interventions to counteract PD risk factors. Ultimately, centenarians offer valuable insights into delaying neurodegeneration, providing a model for potential preventive trials for PD.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that affects an estimated 1 million persons in the United States each year. Although PD has been studied for almost 50 years, several shortcomings in management still exist. Symptom management, addressing movement disorders, psychological aspects, sexual dysfunction, and gastrointestinal concerns may all affect the person with PD.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is classically defined by its cardinal motor features and current clinical diagnostic criteria require the presence of bradykinesia and at least one additional motor symptom out of tremor, rigidity or postural instability. However, converging evidence from clinical, neuropathological, imaging and genetic research suggests initiation of PD-specific pathology prior to appearance of classical motor signs. This is of particular relevance in relation to the development of disease-modifying or neuroprotective therapies which would require intervention at the earliest stages of disease. A key challenge in PD research, therefore, is to better characterize markers for the 'preclinical' stages of the illness. Development of PD criteria by combining such markers allowing for an early diagnosis and intervention could pave the way for the design and implementation of future disease modification trials.

Parkinson's disease is the second most common neurodegenerative disease after Alzheimer's disease. The pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease is complex and imperfectly known. Primum movens is abnormal intra-neuronal accumulation of the protein α-synuclein, leading to metabolic disturbances and neurodegeneration. This abnormal accumulation of α-synuclein is also found in dementia with Lewy bodies and multiple system atrophy, which together with Parkinson's disease form the group of α-synucleinopathies. Well known by its motor signs (bradykinesia, rest tremor, cogwheel rigidity and gait disturbance), Parkinson's disease is above all a systemic disease composed of a myriad of non-motor symptoms (constipation, sense of smell disorders, rapid eye movement sleep behaviour disorders, genitourinary disorders…). These non-motor symptoms caused by accumulation and migration of α-synuclein deposits from the gut and the olfactory bulb to the central nervous system may precede motor signs by ten years and therefore be of interest for early diagnosis. Furthermore, non-motor symptoms have a poorer impact on quality of life than motor signs themselves. Therefore, understanding, recognition and management of non-motor symptoms are crucial in management of parkinsonian patient. In this paper, we offer an update on the main non-motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease, from their pathophysiology to their screening, ending with their management.
Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder whose cardinal manifestations are due primarily to a profound deficit in brain dopamine. Since the 1980s, several therapeutic strategies have been discovered to treat the symptoms of this neurological disorder, but as of yet, none halts or retards the neurodegenerative process. In an attempt to shed light on the neurobiology of Parkinson's disease, a number of experimental models have been developed, especially during the last 25 years. They come essentially in 3 flavors: pharmacological (eg, reserpine), toxic (eg, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine), and genetic (eg, transgenic synuclein mice). These models can also be recast as etiologic, pathogenic, and symptomatic/pathophysiologic, as each may contribute to our understanding of the cause, the mechanisms, and the treatment of Parkinson's disease. In this review, we will discuss the question of Parkinson's disease models, starting from the period when this journal was born to today. During this journey of 25 years, we will discuss both the significant contributions of the Parkinson's disease models and hurdles that remain to be overcome to one day cure this neurological disease.
This review enumerates recent developments in the early diagnosis of Parkinson's disease, with an emphasis on detection of preclinical Parkinson's disease. Several clinical, laboratory, and imaging tests are now being investigated as potential early markers of Parkinson's disease. These include various nonmotor features that predate the motor manifestations of Parkinson's disease, including sleep abnormalities, neurobehavioral symptoms, and olfactory dysfunction. Tests of the autonomic nervous system, such as cardiac functional imaging, allow for a measure of cardiac sympathetic denervation. Cerebrospinal fluid and serum tests, including α-synuclein and DJ-1, are being developed and refined. Various imaging modalities have contributed to the diagnostic armamentarium in Parkinson's disease, including transcranial Doppler ultrasonography, radiolabeled tracer imaging, and magnetic resonance imaging. Early Parkinson's disease detection will pave the way for major advances in disease modifying therapies. Various diagnostic modalities hold promise for the early and preclinical diagnosis of Parkinson's disease. It is likely that the future diagnosis of Parkinson's disease will rely on a combination of clinical, laboratory, imaging, and genetic data.
Previously, outstanding questions have been identified including the relationship of proposed subtypes to etiology, underlying biology, and prognosis. This situation presents an opportunity for major developments in the field. The review summarizes the progress made over the past 1-2 years. The etiologic, physiological, and clinical differences between tremor dominant, postural instability gait disorder, and indeterminate phenotypes have been further explored, finding genetic influences, functional imaging and clinical differences. New cluster analyses suggest that nonmotor features are important aspects of Parkinson's disease subtypes, but there was little association found between tremor-dominant /postural instability gait disorder phenotype and nonmotor symptoms. In the cognitive realm, empirically derived subtypes of PD-MCI did not map well onto cognitive subtypes derived using a data-driven approach. In data-driven subtype research, important survival differences between subtypes were identified within the PROPARK database. It will be important to revisit PD-MCI classification to consider subtyping based upon data that relate cognitive phenotype to prognosis. Given the traction that traditional motor subtyping has had in the field it would be of value to consider how nonmotor symptom clusters can be used with or alongside the motor subtypes. Finally, incorporating subtypes into clinical trials remains a significant gap in Parkinson's disease research.
Parkinson's disease is a progressive, fluctuating neurological condition for which there is no cure. The nurse's role in caring for patients with the disease is to enable them to have as good a quality of life as possible, based on appropriate assessment and management strategies.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the 2<sup>nd</sup> most prevalent neurodegenerative disease in the world. Thus, the early detection of PD has recently been the subject of several scientific and commercial studies. In this paper, we propose a pipeline using Vision Transformer applied to mel-spectrograms for PD classification using multilingual sustained vowel recordings. Furthermore, our proposed transformed-based model shows a great potential to use voice as a single modality biomarker for automatic PD detection without language restrictions, a wide range of vowels, with an F1-score equal to 0.78. The results of our study fall within the range of the estimated prevalence of voice and speech disorders in Parkinson's disease, which ranges from 70-90%. Our study demonstrates a high potential for adaptation in clinical decision-making, allowing for increasingly systematic and fast diagnosis of PD with the potential for use in telemedicine.Clinical relevance- There is an urgent need to develop non invasive biomarker of Parkinson's disease effective enough to detect the onset of the disease to introduce neuroprotective treatment at the earliest stage possible and to follow the results of that intervention. Voice disorders in PD are very frequent and are expected to be utilized as an early diagnostic biomarker. The voice analysis using deep neural networks open new opportunities to assess neurodegenerative diseases' symptoms, for fast diagnosis-making, to guide treatment initiation, and risk prediction. The detection accuracy for voice biomarkers according to our method reached close to the maximum achievable value.
Apathy is among the most prevalent neuropsychiatric symptom experienced in Parkinson's disease (PD) and can be assessed with a variety of scales. To identify which scale is most suitable for apathy assessment in PD, the psychometric properties of each scale and its sensitivity to change were analyzed. The methodological quality of the studies ranged from adequate to excellent. The Lille Apathy Rating Scale demonstrated consistently favorable psychometric properties and was used in two of four clinical trials found. The Starkstein Apathy Scale was the only other scale used in clinical trials. Further work is necessary to develop a gold standard for assessing apathy in PD.
Physical activity and exercise have become a central component of medical management of chronic illness, particular for the elderly who suffer from neurodegenerative disorders that impair their cognition and mobility. This chapter summarizes our recent research showing that a new generation of wearable technology can be adopted as diagnostic and rehabilitation tools for people living with Parkinson's disease. For example, wearable device-enabled 6-min walking test can be automated to eliminate human supervision and many other technical factors that confound the results with conventional testing. With reduced cost and increased test standardization, the technology can be adopted for population-based screening of cardiovascular fitness and gait rehabilitation training efficacy associated with many medical conditions. The Ambulosono platform for multidomain exercise intervention, in particular, has the potential to deliver lasting clinical benefits in slowing PD progression. The platform, through the integration of brisk walking with behavioral shaping strategies such as contingency reinforcement, anticipatory motor control and musical motivational stimulation, creates a home exercise regime that can transform monotonous walking into a pleasurable daily activity and habit.
The number of people suffering from Parkinson's disease is constantly increasing. Diagnosis is based on the motor and non-motor symptoms present throughout the course of the disease. To preserve patient autonomy, the main therapeutic challenge is to propose a treatment adapted to each profile, in conjunction with the implementation of non-medication strategies, reflection on improved accessibility to existing medication and research into innovative therapies.
The motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease are due to the progressive degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Multiple neuroinflammatory processes are exacerbated in Parkinson's disease, including glial-mediated reactions, increased expression of proinflammatory substances, and lymphocytic infiltration, particularly in the substantia nigra. Neuroinflammation is also implicated in the neurodegeneration and consequent behavioral symptoms of many Parkinson's disease animal models, although it is not clear whether these features emulate pathogenic steps in the genuine disorder or if some inflammatory features provide protective stress responses. Here, we compare and summarize findings on neuroinflammatory responses and effects on behavior in a wide range of toxin-based, inflammatory and genetic Parkinson's disease animal models.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease commonly seen in middle-aged and elderly people. The incidence of PD is increasing year by year, which seriously affects the patients' quality of life. Oxidative stress (OS) is one of the pathogeneses of PD. In recent years, with the deepening of research, it has been found that OS is closely related to other PD-related pathogenesis, such as the susceptibility of substantia nigra, mitochondrial dysfunction, abnormal folding of α -synuclein (α -Syn), nitric oxide (NO) increasing, endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS), decreased antioxidant capacity, etc., which is considered to be the central link of the complex convergence of various pathogenesis. A large number of studies also have shown that acupuncture has great potential in regulating OS and treatment of PD. In the present article, we reviewed the role of OS in PD pathology and the mechanism of acupuncture in the treatment of PD by improving OS in recent years： 1) acupuncture acts on Parkinson's disease by increasing antioxidant enzyme levels, 2) acupuncture works in Parkinson's disease by improving pathways related to OS (Nrf2/ARE, PI3K/Akt), 3) acupuncture acts on Parkinson's disease by improving OS-related neuroinflammation, and 4) acupuncture acts on Parkinson's disease by improving the cerebral-intestinal axis associated oxidative stress.
Since the introduction of levodopa therapy for idiopathic Parkinson's disease over 20 years ago, there has been an awakening of research interest in this chronic neuro-degenerative disorder. This paper describes current understanding of the role of genetic and environmental factors in the aetiology of idiopathic Parkinson's disease and problems associated with both diagnosis and management. It briefly outlines both pharmacological and non-pharmacological options for treatment. Despite an increasing armoury of available treatments, the optimum management for this condition remains controversial.
Parkinson's disease is the second most common neurodegenerative disease. Lewy bodies with alpha-synuclein as the major component and loss of dopaminergic nerve cells in substantia nigra are neuropathological features. The diagnosis of Parkinson's disease is based on the occurrence of bradykinesia, rigidity and resting tremor. The disease is also associated with several non-motor symptoms. The therapy is mainly based on pharmacological treatment to increase dopamine signaling and neurosurgical deep brain stimulation. The symptoms and signs of the progressive disease change over time, requiring treatment adjustments. Patients should be followed by a physician, nurse and a multidisciplinary team with expertise in Parkinson's disease.
The etiology, pathophysiology, diagnosis and clinical presentation, and clinical management of Parkinson's disease are reviewed. The cause of Parkinson's disease, a progressive, degenerative neurologic motor disorder, is unknown. Both endogenous and environmental factors appear to play a role. The clinical features of parkinsonism result from a depletion in dopaminergic transmission in the corpus striatum; the dopamine deficiency is caused by a loss of melanin-containing nerve cells within the substantia nigra and locus ceruleus. In the remaining neurons, hyalin-like masses called Lewy bodies increase in number, but the importance of this is unclear. The diagnosis of Parkinson's disease is based on the clinical presentation of the patient, which initially includes sensory complaints of aching pains, paresthesias, numbness, and coldness. As the disease progresses, the four classic symptoms become prominent: tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia, and postural difficulties. Drug therapy is the cornerstone of clinical management of Parkinson's disease, but no treatment has been found that will retard or reverse the disease. Therapy is usually initiated with anticholinergic agents such as biperiden hydrochloride or trihexyphenidyl hydrochloride with or without amantadine. The mainstay of therapy is levodopa, which is used in combination with dopa decarboxylase inhibitors to decrease the peripheral conversion of levodopa to dopamine. Bromocriptine is a dopamine agonist useful in treating Parkinson's disease. Therapy, which must continue for life, eventually becomes less effective or completely ineffective in all patients. Drug therapy has improved greatly the functional ability of patients with Parkinson's disease, but new agents that can extend the length of effective treatment or reverse the disease are needed.
The progressive loss of motor function in the brain is a hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD). Electroencephalogram (EEG) signals are commonly used for early diagnosis since they are associated with a brain disorder. This work aims to find a better way to represent electroencephalography (EEG) signals and enhance the classification accuracy of individuals with Parkinson's disease using EEG signals. In this paper, we present two hybrid deep neural networks (DNN) that combine convolutional neural networks with long short-term memory to diagnose Parkinson's disease using EEG signals, that is, through the establishment of parallel and series combined models. The deep CNN network is utilized to acquire the structural features of ECG signals and extract meaningful information from them, after which the signals are sent via a long short-term memory network to extract the features' context dependency. The proposed architecture was able to achieve 97.6% specificity, 97.1% sensitivity, and 98.6% accuracy for a parallel model and 99.1% specificity, 98.5% sensitivity, and 99.7% accuracy for a series model, both in 3-class classification (PD patients with medication, PD patients without medication and healthy).
Parkinson's disease is a multifactorial disease. In early-onset cases, genetic predisposition may play a role, but typical Parkinson's disease is most likely determined by genetic and environmental factors. Since age is a consistent risk factor, an age-dependent cumulative insult mechanism may be responsible for the selective degeneration of nigrostriatal neurons. Although there is no cure, several types of treatments are currently available to substantially reduce the clinical symptoms of Parkinson's disease. An understanding of the age-dependent complex pattern of genetic variation (SNP genotyping) together with the genetic expression profile (using chip technology) of the degenerating neurons and the effect of environmental factors is a prerequisite to deciphering the mechanism of pathogenesis. This understanding may lead to predicting drug response and ultimately to developing preventive medicine at the individual level in the future.

Even with optimal therapy, it is inevitable that the symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) progress and gradually result in disability in the performance of daily activities. Delay and prevention of disability is among the highest priorities in the clinical management of PD. Understanding the association between the diverse symptoms of PD and the emerging disability is fundamental to minimizing functional limitations. This article differentiates disability from impairment and quality of life and explores the relationship between the specific impairments of PD and resulting disability. Identifying appropriate tools for outcomes measurement and impediments to accurate assessment of disability are also reviewed.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by motor and non-motor symptoms and has a median age-of-onset around 55 years. Many PD patients are thus diagnosed before reaching retirement age and it is likely that they are confronted with a reduced working capacity or loss of employment. This systematic literature review gives an overview of the research conducted on work capacity in PD. A systematic literature search was performed in PsycINFO and PubMed (Keywords: "Parkinson" or "Parkinson's disease" combined with "employment", "work", "working", "retire" or "retirement"). Thirteen studies were identified and showed that PD patients retired 4-7 years earlier than the general population. Furthermore, 23%-75% of patients report that they retired early because of PD and slowness and fatigue were reported as the most debilitating symptoms in relation to working capacity. Early retirement of PD patients is associated with high societal costs and a high loss of individual lifetime earnings. Although many employed PD patients asked for adjustments at their workplace, their employers did not always support these. PD has a detrimental effect on working capacity and is associated with high costs. Employed PD patients do not, however, always receive the support they need. It is therefore very relevant that employers and patients are informed about strategies and techniques developed for counteracting symptoms of PD which might support patients to stay in the workforce for a longer period of time.
Olfactory dysfunction in Parkinson's disease is common and of interest, both as a clinical finding and potential biomarker. In this article, we discuss studies characterizing the olfactory deficit in Parkinson's disease and pathological analysis that suggests the olfactory system is a likely induction site of the neurodegenerative process. These studies have enabled research to explore the potential of olfactory dysfunction as a key component in early diagnostic strategies, as a biomarker for diagnostic purposes, a predictor of clinical outcomes and a potential therapy-independent marker of disease progression.

The diagnosis of Parkinson's disease is not easy. Developments in basic research have indicated pathophysiological links among parkinsonian syndromes that are still classified as independent entities. On the other hand, genetic studies are dividing forms that fit into the clinical diagnosis of Parkinson's disease. The diagnostic criteria used in current practice are by no means satisfactory, but cannot yet be replaced by new comprehensive criteria based on laboratory evidence.


Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disease, characterized by motor and non-motor symptoms. Because of the higher prevalence of Parkinson's disease in older adults, the hypothesis was that Parkinson's disease patients would have worse oral health. Since the quality of life deteriorates with Parkinson's disease, it is important to study what the influence of the mouth is in this. The aim of this thesis was to further our knowledge of Parkinson's disease and oral health (oral health and its diseases, and orofacial pain and dysfunction). The overall conclusion was that oral health is worse in patients with Parkinson's disease than in healthy patients, with consequences for Oral Health-Related Quality of Life. Furthermore, it is argued that to overcome disease-related problems, interdisciplinary collaboration is needed. However, because this also brings several difficulties with it, the discussion was initiated that if dental and medical students are more often taught together, a natural collaboration would occur.
This study seeks to systematically review the selection of features and algorithms for machine learning and automation in deep brain stimulation surgery (DBS) for Parkinson's disease. This will assist in consolidating current knowledge and accuracy levels to allow greater understanding and research to be performed in automating this process, which could lead to improved clinical outcomes. A systematic literature review search was conducted for all studies that utilized machine learning and DBS in Parkinson's disease. Ten studies were identified from 2006 utilizing machine learning in DBS surgery for Parkinson's disease. Different combinations of both spike independent and spike dependent features have been utilized with different machine learning algorithms to attempt to delineate the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and its surrounding structures. The state-of-the-art algorithms achieve good accuracy and error rates with relatively short computing time, however, the currently achievable accuracy is not sufficiently robust enough for clinical practice. Moreover, further research is required for identifying subterritories of the STN. This is a comprehensive summary of current machine learning algorithms that discriminate the STN and its adjacent structures for DBS surgery in Parkinson's disease.
The importance of circadian function in the aetiology, progression and treatment of Parkinson's disease is a topic of increasing interest to the scientific and clinical community. While clinical studies on this theme are relatively new and limited in number there are many preclinical studies which explore possible circadian involvement in Parkinson's disease and speculate as to the mechanism by which clinical benefit can be derived by manipulating the circadian system. The present review explores the sequelae of circadian related studies from a historical perspective and reveals mechanisms that may be involved in the aetiology and progression of the disease. A systematic review of these studies also sets the stage for understanding the basic neuroscientific approaches which have been applied and provides new direction from which circadian function can be explored.
Pathological and biochemical evidence reviewed favours the hypothesis that the dementia seen in Parkinson's disease, particularly after long-term levodopa therapy, is akin to Alzheimer's disease. We postulate, in late Parkinson's disease, the development of a relative cholinergic deficiency due to the accelerated process of aging and the presence of neurofibrillary tangles (with choline acetyl transferase deficiency.) This process would be enhanced by the imbalance in favour of dopaminergic predominance caused by chronic levodopa therapy, and would partially explain the increase in dementia. As a test of this hypothesis we have given 10 levodopa-treated parkinsonian patients with dementia, a regimen of lecithin (average 20 gms/day). A clear improvement in Kohs block design test of constructive ability was noted with a decrease in the toxic symptoms of confusion, hallucinations and nightmares. In another study lecithin produced a decrease in levodopa-induced abnormal movements, but at the expense of motor performance. These preliminary investigations indicate that the progressive dementia of Parkinson's disease may not be irreversible.
Cognitive and gait deficits are two debilitating symptoms that occur in Parkinson's disease (PD). Importantly, a relationship between cognitive and gait deficits exists in PD, suggesting reliance on cognition is increased to compensate for gait deficits and/or deterioration of cognition and gait may share common mechanisms. Rehabilitation strategies targeting one factor could lead to the improvement of the other, presenting a unique opportunity to treat both simultaneously. Gold-standard pharmaceuticals partially alleviate these deficits with significant side effects, highlighting the importance of investigating adjunct therapies like exercise. We critically reviewed the influence of three exercise modalities (aerobic, resistance, and goal-based) on cognition and/or gait in PD. Most studies showed improvements in cognition or gait, yet, a limited number investigated them concurrently. This is the first review examining exercise for cognition and gait in PD. Key gaps in the literature are identified; potential exercise-driven mechanisms for enhancements in cognition and gait proposed, and suggestions for the design of future studies investigating the effects of exercise on cognition and gait in PD.
Symptoms of dysautonomia are common in Parkinson's disease (PD), and almost all the functional autonomic subsystems can be involved in PD. However, they are still under-recognized in everyday clinical practice. Autonomic dysfunction can be observed in the early stages of PD, affect a substantial proportion of patients, impact quality of life and can also help in differential diagnosis. This review aims to provide an overview of the pathophysiology, clinical manifestations, relevant examination and treatment of cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, urogenital, thermoregulatory and pupil autonomic dysfunctions in Parkinson's disease.
Parkinson's disease is a complex neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor and non-motor symptoms, with neuropsychiatric manifestations among the most frequent non-motor symptoms. Health-related quality of life is a patient-reported outcome that reflects the impact of the disease on physical, mental, and social wellbeing, and on other aspects of patient' life. Although older studies on health-related quality of life in Parkinson's disease mainly investigated the role of the motor impairment, recent research focused on non-motor symptoms has highlighted the critical role that behavioural disturbances due to neuropsychiatric symptoms play in determining health related quality of life. A considerable number of studies have demonstrated the importance of depression as a determinant of health-related quality of life in this population, but less evidence is available regarding the role of other neuropsychiatric symptoms such as anxiety, apathy, psychosis, and impulse control disorders. This narrative review analyses recent literature on this topic, focusing on studies in which neuropsychiatric symptoms were investigated as potential determinants of quality of life using regression techniques, including discussion of the assessment tools used.
Disease-modifying therapies that slow or halt the progression of Parkinson's disease are an unmet clinical need. Many hypotheses have been put forward to explain the pathogenesis of the disease, but none has led to the development of disease-modifying drugs. Here we focus on familial forms of late-onset parkinsonism that most closely resemble idiopathic Parkinson's disease and present a synthesis of emerging molecular advances. Genetic discoveries and mechanistic investigations have highlighted early alterations to synaptic function, endosomal maturation, and protein sorting that might lead to an intracellular proteinopathy. We propose that these cellular processes constitute one pathway to pathogenesis and suggest that neuroprotection, as an adjunct to current symptomatic treatments, need not remain an elusive goal.
Apathy is a behavioural syndrome due to dysfunction of the process that gives rise to actions induced by external or personal stimuli. Apathy is very common in Parkinson's disease, with a prevalence that ranges between 16-48%. Three subtypes of apathy are currently accepted, which are anatomically and functionally different: cognitive, emotional and due to a deficit in auto-activation. Each of these subtypes is involved to a variable degree in the apathy of Parkinson's disease. The diagnosis is desupported by clinical, diagnostic and neuropsychological tests. The evaluation of the apathy must be done simultaneously along with with depression cognitive deficit. Apathy has become a very important symptom to bear in mind in Parkinson's disease patients as it has significant repercussions on the quality of life of the patient. It is very important to do a differential diagnosis with the depression and the cognitive deficit since the therapeutic approach is different. Specific scales to measure this symptom should be included in the evaluation protocols of cognitive function in Parkinson's disease.
This paper reviews the literature describing the condition of the adrenal medulla in Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder that is characterized primarily by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Clinical observations have revealed that Parkinson's disease is also frequently accompanied by a variety of autonomic symptoms. The adrenal medulla is a major component of the autonomic nervous system. However, until recently this organ has not been of particular interest in Parkinson's disease. Early studies found histologic abnormalities in adrenal medullary cells, and several groups measured urinary and plasma catecholamines to determine general autonomic status. In the late 1980s adrenal medullary tissue was first transplanted to the caudate nucleus in an attempt to augment the decreased levels of dopamine, and thus treat the symptoms of Parkinson's disease. At this time the status of the adrenal medulla in this disease became clinically important. We measured the total catecholamine content of the parkinsonian adrenal medulla in tissue collected both at autopsy and in conjunction with adrenal-caudate transplants. Adrenal medullary catecholamines and several neuropeptides were severely depressed in parkinsonian glands. Thus, the adrenal medulla appears to be a target of the peripheral manifestations of Parkinson's disease.
Since the early 1930s, physicians have developed and refined various surgical therapies for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. In this review we examine some of the problems associated with early surgical therapies, the development of new techniques and targets, and the results of clinical trials examining the safety and efficacy of these techniques. Ablative techniques include pallidotomy, thalamotomy, and, more recently, subthalamotomy. Because of concern over the high incidence of side-effects associated with bilateral ablative procedures, alternative approaches were explored. Deep brain stimulation (DBS) was subsequently developed and successfully applied in the internal globus pallidus, subthalamic nucleus, and thalamus for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Recent approaches include biological neurorestorative techniques--surgical therapies with transplantation, gene therapy, and growth factors are all being studied. Although a great deal of work remains to be done, advances in surgical therapies for the treatment of Parkinson's disease are moving forward at an unprecedented pace.
Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurologic disorder without cure. About 1% of the US population over 50 years of age is afflicted. Loss of dopaminergic neurons originating in the substantia nigra is the typical pathologic feature. It is theorized that both genetic and environmental factors have a role in the etiology of the disease. The classic tetrad of parkinsonian signs includes tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia, and disturbances in posture and gait. Initial signs and symptoms can be subtle and nonspecific. As the disease progresses, vocal, neurologic, autonomic, and psychiatric complications may develop. Mortality rates have not changed in 30 years despite new therapy. Differentiating true Parkinson's disease from other causes of parkinsonism can be challenging but is crucial to outcome.
Parkinson's disease is a complex disease with multiple etiological factors involved in disease pathogenesis, and the molecular and cellular pathways for neurodegeneration are still elusive. We reviewed all the relevant laboratory findings regarding acupuncture mechanism on Parkinson's disease. Acupuncture treatments in animal experiments have generated valuable mechanistic insights of Parkinson's disease and shown that acupuncture therapy is in fact a neuroprotective therapy which increases various neuroprotective agents such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor and cyclophilin A. In addition, acupuncture therapy decreases cell death processes and attenuates oxidative stress to substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons. These results suggest that early application of acupuncture therapy for Parkinson's disease patients may be helpful for the best efficacy of acupuncture treatment.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder typified by the presence of intraneuronal inclusions containing aggregated alpha synuclein (αsyn). The progression of parkinsonian pathology and clinical phenotype has been broadly demonstrated to follow a specific pattern, most notably described by Braak and colleagues. In more recent times it has been hypothesized that αsyn itself may be a critical factor in mediating transmission of disease pathology from one brain area to another. Here we investigate the growing body of evidence demonstrating the ability of αsyn to spread transcellularly and induce pathological aggregation affecting neurons by permissive templating and provide a critical analysis of some irregularities in the hypothesis that the progression of PD pathology may be mediated by such a prion-like process. Finally we discuss some key questions that remain unanswered which are vital to determining the potential contribution of a prion-like process to the pathogenesis of PD.
Executive dysfunction can be present from the early stages of Parkinson's disease (PD). It is characterized by deficits in internal control of attention, set shifting, planning, inhibitory control, dual task performance, and on a range of decision-making and social cognition tasks. Treatment with dopaminergic medication has variable effects on executive deficits, improving some, leaving some unchanged, and worsening others. In this review, we start by defining the specific nature of executive dysfunction in PD and describe suitable neuropsychological tests. We then discuss how executive deficits relate to pathology in specific territories of the basal ganglia, consider the impact of dopaminergic treatment on executive function (EF) in this context, and review the changes in EFs with disease progression. In later sections, we summarize correlates of executive dysfunction in PD with motor performance (e.g., postural instability, freezing of gait) and a variety of psychiatric (e.g., depression, apathy) and other clinical symptoms, and finally discuss the implications of these for the patients' daily life.

Our understanding of the neural mechanisms underlying the placebo effect has increased exponentially in parallel with the advances in brain imaging. This is of particular importance in the field of Parkinson's disease, where clinicians have described placebo effects in their patients for decades. Significant placebo effects have been observed in clinical trials for medications as well as more invasive surgical trials including deep-brain stimulation and stem-cell implantation. In addition to placebo effects occurring as a byproduct of randomized controlled trials, investigation of the placebo effect itself in the laboratory setting has further shown the capacity for strong placebo effects within this patient population. Neuroimaging studies have demonstrated that placebos stimulate the release of dopamine in the striatum of patients with Parkinson's disease and can alter the activity of dopamine neurons using single-cell recording. When taken together with the findings from other medical conditions discussed elsewhere in this publication, a unified mechanism for the placebo effect in Parkinson's disease is emerging that blends expectation-induced neurochemical changes and disease-specific nigrostriatal dopamine release.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic neurodegenerative movement disorder characterized by the progressive and massive loss of dopaminergic neurons by neuronal apoptosis in the substantia nigra pars compacta and depletion of dopamine in the striatum, which lead to pathological and clinical abnormalities. A numerous of cellular processes including oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, and accumulation of α-synuclein aggregates are considered to contribute to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. A further understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in the pathophysiology of PD is crucial for developing effective diagnostic, preventative, and therapeutic strategies to cure this devastating disorder. Preconditioning (PC) is assumed as a natural adaptive process whereby a subthreshold stimulus can promote protection against a subsequent lethal stimulus in the brain as well as in other tissues that affords robust brain tolerance facing neurodegenerative insults. Multiple lines of evidence have demonstrated that preconditioning as a possible neuroprotective technique may reduce the neural deficits associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as PD. Throughout the last few decades, a lot of efforts have been made to discover the molecular determinants involved in preconditioning-induced protective responses; although, the accurate mechanisms underlying this "tolerance" phenomenon are not fully understood in PD. In this review, we will summarize pathophysiology and current therapeutic approaches in PD and discuss about preconditioning in PD as a potential neuroprotective strategy. Also the role of gene reprogramming and mitochondrial biogenesis involved in the preconditioning-mediated neuroprotective events will be highlighted. Preconditioning may represent a promising therapeutic weapon to combat neurodegeneration.
Parkinson's disease is the second most frequent neurodegenerative disorder. While most cases occur sporadic mutations in a growing number of genes including Parkin (PARK2) and PINK1 (PARK6) have been associated with the disease. Different animal models and cell models like patient skin fibroblasts and recombinant cell lines can be used as model systems for Parkinson's disease. Skin fibroblasts present a system with defined mutations and the cumulative cellular damage of the patients. PINK1 and Parkin genes show relevant expression levels in human fibroblasts and since both genes participate in stress response pathways, we believe fibroblasts advantageous in order to assess, e.g. the effect of stressors. Furthermore, since a bioenergetic deficit underlies early stage Parkinson's disease, while atrophy underlies later stages, the use of primary cells seems preferable over the use of tumor cell lines. The new option to use fibroblast-derived induced pluripotent stem cells redifferentiated into dopaminergic neurons is an additional benefit. However, the use of fibroblast has also some drawbacks. We have investigated PARK6 fibroblasts and they mirror closely the respiratory alterations, the expression profiles, the mitochondrial dynamics pathology and the vulnerability to proteasomal stress that has been documented in other model systems. Fibroblasts from patients with PARK2, PARK6, idiopathic Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 demonstrated a distinct and unique mRNA expression pattern of key genes in neurodegeneration. Thus, primary skin fibroblasts are a useful Parkinson's disease model, able to serve as a complement to animal mutants, transformed cell lines and patient tissues.
The concept of personalised medicine in Parkinson's disease has arrived where the implications of findings made in research are certain to have an increasing impact upon clinical practice. Disease heterogeneity in Parkinson's disease has been well described and lends itself to the construct of personalised medicine where it is hypothesised that a greater understanding of genetic and pathophysiological contributions may underpin the sub-groups described. This in turn has driven the development of potentially individualised disease-modifying therapies where, for example, we are beginning to see treatments that target patients with Parkinson's disease with specific genetic mutations. Furthermore, clinicians are increasingly recognising the need to tailor their management approach to patients depending on their age of presentation, acknowledging differential side-effect profiles and responses especially when considering the use of device-assisted technologies such as infusion or surgery. Clearly, individualising the treatment of both motor and non-motor symptoms will remain imperative but, in the future, personalised medicine may provide clearer insights into various aspects of a patient's symptomatology, disease course and thus the best therapeutic approaches.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is known as a chronic neurodegenerative disorder with a relentlessly progressive course of illness. Although in recent decades there have been many advances in symptomatic therapy, there is still no established therapy that will halt or slow progression in a clinically meaningful way. So far, disease-modification trials have focused on indices of progression of cardinal motor features such as bradykinesia, rigidity and tremor as captured by the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale, and the emerging need for effective symptomatic dopaminergic therapy. Progression of global disability in PD, however, is driven by additional factors beyond progressive nigrostriatal denervation, leading to increasing severity of cardinal motor features. Progressive pathology in extranigral sites inevitably leads to poorly L-dopa-responsive motor symptoms such as postural instability, freezing and falls, or non-motor symptoms. Furthermore, treatment-induced motor complications also contribute to PD disability. Progression of PD is multidimensional with superimposed age-related co-morbidities. Hence there is no consensus on how to best implement more clinically meaningful end-points for disease progression trials that would reflect these complex interactions impacting on the evolution of global disability in PD. There is an urgent need for biomarkers identifying preclinical stages of illness and describing disease progression--thus faithfully reflecting early and advancing neurodegeneration--that could be used in short-term clinical trials testing putative disease-modifying agents.


Understanding the risk and protective factors associated with Parkinson's disease (PD) is crucial for improving outcomes for patients, individuals at risk, healthcare providers, and healthcare systems. Studying these factors not only enhances our knowledge of the disease but also aids in developing effective prevention, management, and treatment strategies. This paper reviews the key risk and protective factors associated with PD, with a particular focus on the biological mechanisms underlying these factors. Risk factors include genetic mutations, racial predispositions, and environmental exposures, all of which contribute to an increased likelihood of developing PD or accelerating its progression. Conversely, protective factors, such as regular physical exercise, adherence to a Mediterranean diet, and higher urate levels, have the potential to reduce inflammation and support mitochondrial function, thereby mitigating the risk of disease. However, identifying and validating these factors presents significant challenges. These challenges include the absence of reliable biomarkers, intricate interactions between genetic and environmental components, and clinical heterogeneity observed in patients with PD. These barriers complicate the establishment of clear causal relationships and hinder the development of targeted preventive strategies. To overcome these challenges, we propose several solutions and recommendations. Understanding the mechanisms underlying risk factors may inform future research aimed at developing standardized and more accurate biomarkers for PD, facilitating earlier diagnosis and improved monitoring of disease progression. Additionally, we offer actionable recommendations for PD prevention and management tailored to healthy individuals, patients diagnosed with PD, and healthcare systems. These strategies aim to improve clinical outcomes, enhance the quality of life, and optimize healthcare delivery for PD.

Several exciting new scientific advances have been made in the past decade toward both understanding the causes of and finding a cure for Parkinson's disease. Heartened by an acceleration in research findings in the past several years, the government has recently called for an infusion of funds from both the National Institutes of Health and private foundations into this burgeoning area of biomedical research. Most currently available conventional treatments for the disease only temporarily delay symptom presentation while doing nothing to halt disease progression. However, the rapidly accelerating pace of research in this field has left researchers hopeful that Parkinson's will be the first major age-related neurodegenerative disease for which we have a viable cure. In this article, advances in various areas of Parkinson's disease research are reviewed.
Increasing recognition that Parkinson's disease (PD) may start outside of the substantia nigra has led to a rapidly expanding effort to define prodromal stages of PD, before motor signs permit classical diagnosis. Many of these efforts center around the identification of clinical non-motor symptoms and signs of disease. There is now direct evidence that olfaction, rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder (RBD), constipation, and depression can be present in prodromal PD. In addition, there is suggestive evidence that visual changes, other autonomic symptoms, and subtle cognitive changes may also be present at prodromal stages. A critical issue in utility of these prodromal markers will be assessment of sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values. Although these have yet to be fully defined, olfactory deficits, some visual changes, and autonomic symptoms occur in the majority of PD patients at diagnosis, suggesting good potential sensitivity. However, with the exception of RBD and perhaps some specific autonomic measures, specificity, and positive predictive value of these markers may be insufficient to be used alone as identifiers of prodromal disease. The evidence for the utility of olfaction, RBD, autonomic markers, visual changes, mood disorders, and cognitive loss as markers of prodromal PD and the potential sensitivity and specificity of these markers are summarized.
Motor symptoms are core features of Parkinson's disease, while nonmotor symptoms are present from the prodromal stage. Management strategies for the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease have been widely researched and there have been many advances. Therapy has evolved from oral therapy to once a day to nonoral strategies, both for rescue and for infusion therapy. Treatment for nonmotor symptoms, however, has remained a key unmet need, although of late evidence base for management of some nonmotor symptoms such as pain, dementia, aspects of sleep dysfunction, and constipation has emerged. However, management of many nonmotor symptoms such as anxiety, apathy, fatigue, and insomnia remains uncharted. In this review, we address these management strategies and discuss the evidence base of available therapies.
ObjectiveTo systematically evaluate the efficacy of hyperbaric oxygen therapy for non-motor symptoms in patients with Parkinson's disease.Data sourcesA systematic search was performed across several databases, including the Chinese Science and Technology Periodical Database, Web of Science, SinoMed, PubMed, Cochrane Library, Embase and Wanfang databases up to 1 December 2024. Studies considered for inclusion comprised randomised controlled trials and pre-post control studies.Review methodsThe authors conducted the data extraction and literature screening procedures independently. The selected studies' quality was evaluated using the Cochrane risk of bias technique. Review Manager 5.3 was used to conduct meta-analyses, while Stata 15.0 was utilised for sensitivity analysis and to assess publication bias.ResultsSixteen studies with a total of 1324 individuals satisfied the inclusion criteria. The results of the meta-analysis showed that hyperbaric oxygen therapy significantly improved scores on the Hamilton Anxiety Scale and Hamilton Depression Scale compared with baseline (both <i>p </i>< 0.05). Additionally, improvements were observed in the Montreal Cognitive Assessment, Mini-Mental State Examination, Parkinson's Disease Sleep Scale, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, Kubota's Drinking Water Test and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale III. Improvements in sleep efficiency and extension of total sleep time were also noted compared with controls (all <i>p </i>< 0.05).ConclusionThe findings indicate that hyperbaric oxygen therapy effectively alleviates non-motor symptoms such as anxiety, depression, cognitive impairments, sleep disturbances, and swallowing dysfunction, as well as improving motor function in Parkinson's disease patients. Since the hyperbaric oxygen therapy protocol had significant differences between studies, further prospective randomised controlled trials with rigorous methodology are needed.
There is a renewed interest on eye movements analysis and retinal alterations in Parkinson's disease. This may identify markers for at-risk subpopulation, early diagnosis and evolutive profiles for research or personalized medicine.
This review paper summarises the evidence to support the use of music in rehabilitation interventions for people with Parkinson's disease (PD).
Parkinson's disease is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder. Despite fairly typical clinical and pathologic features, the etiology remains unknown. Many cellular mechanisms such as oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, lysosomal dysfunction, neuroinflammatory changes, and the formation of pathologic inclusions have been proposed as potential causes. Potential links between environmental and genetic changes appear to predispose individuals to develop Parkinson's disease. Considering these observations, albeit with different levels of evidence, it is becoming more probable that Parkinson's disease is a heterogeneous disorder or a syndrome that arises from the contribution of many different factors.


Psychosis is common in Parkinson's disease, and occurs with increasing frequency as the disease progresses. Assessment and treatment are often complicated and involve several clinical specialists in addition to the general practitioner. We describe the prevalence, form, causes and treatment of psychosis in Parkinson's disease. The article is based on a literature search in PubMed for controlled pharmacological treatment studies and a discretionary selection of articles based on the authors' clinical and research experience. About 1 % of patients with newly diagnosed Parkinson's disease have psychotic symptoms. In later stages, complicated by dementia, these symptoms occur in about half of the patients. A false sense of presence, optical illusions and visual hallucinations occur most frequently, but delusions and hallucinations involving other senses have been reported. Various theories to explain the underlying etiology and pathology are explored. A further medical assessment is recommended when psychotic symptoms occur. Clozapine is still the only antipsychotic drug documented effective against psychotic symptoms in Parkinson's disease. The prevalence of psychotic symptoms in various stages of Parkinson''s disease has been thoroughly documented. Non-pharmacological treatment is often effective, but the documentation is inadequate. Pharmacological treatment with clozapine has proved effective against psychosis in Parkinson's disease, but new drugs that are easier to administer are needed.
For the many clinicians au fait with the history of the clinical description of Parkinson's disease, they will be aware that the very earliest description of James Parkinson's "Shaking Palsy" in 1817 explicitly excluded the involvement of cognitive and emotional processes as manifestations of the disease. Within a short time following his treatise, it became all too clear to those in the field that Parkinson's disease is more than just a motor disorder, and as was aptly conceptualized by Paul McHugh, Professor of Psychiatry at Johns Hopkins Hospital from 1975 until 2001, Parkinson's disease is closer to being a "triadic disorder," encompassing motor, cognitive, and psychiatric elements (McHugh, 1989). Even this notion is now outdated, with the triad being accompanied by autonomic, pain, and other non-motor syndromes.
The search for valid instruments to measure different domains of health disturbances becomes increasingly important for the assessment of Parkinson's disease. The most widely used tool is the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) which was introduced in 1987 and is currently awaiting revision. In addition, a variety of instruments have been used to capture non-motor aspects of Parkinson's disease but only a minority of these instruments has been validated for this particular disease condition. Measurements of quality of life are being incorporated into an increasing number of studies in order to reflect a more integral view of health and have contributed to a better understanding of the impact of disease and interventions. The International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health introduced by the WHO in 2001 offers a multidimensional approach to human functioning and participation that can also be applied to the assessment of health status in PD. This workshop report will focus on the present state of clinimetry in PD and discuss future perspectives.
This article discusses the neuropsychological profile of Parkinson's disease from the perspective of cognitive theory, anatomical organization, and unit recording data. Despite the point of origin, methodologically controlled studies are converging to support the position that patients with this disorder suffer selective impairment in the acquisition of novel tasks which rely on internal (subjective) processing for the efficient establishment of new cognitive "habits." The roles of attention and learning as well as of unit activity within the relevant networks are considered. Also included are recent but important concepts from personality theory which potentially enhance understanding of the neuropsychology of Parkinson's disease.
In many areas of medicine, the focus has shifted from treating existing disease to screening and prevention. The technology to screen for Parkinson's disease (PD) already exists. The current challenge is to define the appropriate use of predictive testing for PD. Imaging technologies currently offer the highest degree of accuracy for identifying premotor PD, but they are expensive as screening tools. Efficiency is greatly enhanced by combining imaging with a prescreening test, such as olfactory testing. This two-step process has the potential to greatly reduce costs while retaining diagnostic accuracy. Ultimately, the role of preclinical detection of PD will be determined by the ability of emerging therapies to influence clinical outcomes. As such, implementation of large-scale screening strategies awaits the arrival of clearly safe and effective therapies that address the underlying pathogenesis of PD. Current research to evaluate efficient screening methods and to understand the clinical and physiological features of "premotor" PD will lay the foundation for the screening and prevention strategies of the future.
This article describes the signs and symptoms of Parkinson's disease and the complications that arise as the condition progresses. Motor and non-motor symptoms are discussed as well as the problems that patients experience on admission to hospital. The complexities of medication management--including issues of concordance--are outlined and advice is given on how nurses can help patients and their carers to manage this condition.
Idiopathic Parkinson's disease is a slowly progressive neurodegenerative disease. In the absence of disease-modifying therapies, patients inevitably progress to late-stage disease, characterised by a shift towards increasing disability from predominantly non-motor symptoms, which may be poorly levodopa responsive. The aim of this article is to provide general practitioners (GPs) with a practical approach to the diagnosis and management of acute clinical deterioration in patients with late-stage Parkinson's disease. The authors outline common causes for such change and an approach to their workup and management. With an ageing population, we are seeing an increased prevalence of Parkinson's disease at all stages. Neurologists, geriatricians and GPs alike should therefore be familiar with the syndrome of late-stage Parkinson's disease and be equipped with treatment strategies to address acute non-motor and motor deteriorations.
Parkinson's disease is a progressive age-related neurodegenerative disease with invariant loss of substantia nigra dopamine neurons and striatal projections. This disorder is well known for the associated motoric symptoms including resting tremor and the inability to initiate movement. However, it is now apparent that Parkinson's disease is a multisystem disorder with patients exhibiting symptoms derived from peripheral nervous system and extra-nigral dysfunctions in addition to the prototypical nigrostriatal damage. Although the etiology for sporadic Parkinson's disease is unknown, information gleaned from both familial forms of the disease and animal models places misfolded alpha-synuclein at the forefront. The disease is currently without a cure and most therapies target the motoric symptoms relying on increasing dopamine tone. In this review, the role of alpha-synuclein in disease pathogenesis and as a potential therapeutic target focusing on toxic conformers of this protein is considered. The addition of protofibrillar/oligomer-directed neurotherapeutics to the existing armamentarium may extend the symptom-free stage of Parkinson's disease as well as alleviate pathogenesis.
Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative process characterized by numerous motor and nonmotor clinical manifestations for which effective, mechanism-based treatments remain elusive. Here we discuss a series of critical issues that we think researchers need to address to stand a better chance of solving the different challenges posed by this pathology.
Recent studies in the Parkinson's literature have cited a tuberculosis-like germ called Nocardia as being responsible for Parkinson's disease. Kohbata seemingly cemented a relationship between Nocardia and Parkinson's by finding serologic evidence in 20 of 20 Parkinson's patients, acknowledging that blood tests for Nocardia and the mycobacteria such as tuberculosis often cross-react, as they belong to the same order of bacteria, the Actinomycetales. Besides this difficulty in differentiation, a well-used medical school textbook of microbiology, Atlas, points out that even among experts, different observers may classify the same strain of bacteria as Nocardia or Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Parkinson's: another look is a theoretical article which presents compelling, well-documented evidence for an infectious cause for Parkinson's disease on historical, epidemiological, pharmacologic, microbiological, and biochemical levels.
Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder of older persons that eventually leads to disability. It is characterized by tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia, and postural instability. Progressive stages can be identified, each with unique problems. The optimal management of Parkinson's disease requires multiple professionals to address the needs of the patients as well as those of the caregivers. In addition to pharmacologic management, patients with Parkinson's disease can benefit from physical intervention and psychological support. This article summarizes strategies incorporating the multiple disciplines for each stage of the disease. [Cutson TM, Laub KC, Schenkman M. Pharmacological and nonpharmacological interventions in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

The fundamental concepts of the medical treatment of Parkinson's disease are simple, and remain based on the enhancement of dopaminergic transmission by means of levodopa and dopamine agonists. Recently published practice parameters from the American Academy of Neurology and an evidence-based review under the auspices of the Movement Disorder Society provide guidance on motor complications and also cognitive and psychiatric issues associated with Parkinson's disease. The choices of medications are increasing as are the routes of administration, with the arrival of injectable and transdermal dopamine agonists and a monoamine inhibitor absorbed via the buccal mucosa. Although simple conceptually, the actual care of patients with Parkinson's disease is often complex, requiring consideration of potential future complications and individualized medication regimens, and minimizing the adverse effects of medications that range from unpleasant to seriously disturbing.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is an insidious disorder affecting more than 1-2% of the population over the age of 65. Understanding the etiology of PD may create opportunities for developing new treatments. Genomic and transcriptomic studies are useful, but do not provide evidence for the actual status of the disease. Conversely, proteomic studies deal with proteins, which are real time players, and can hence provide information on the dynamic nature of the affected cells. The number of publications relating to the proteomics of PD is vast. Therefore, there is a need to evaluate the current proteomics literature and establish the connections between the past and the present to foresee the future. Areas covered: PubMed and Web of Science were used to retrieve the literature associated with PD proteomics. Studies using human samples, model organisms and cell lines were selected and reviewed to highlight their contributions to PD. Expert commentary: The proteomic studies associated with PD achieved only limited success in facilitating disease diagnosis, monitoring and progression. A global system biology approach using new models is needed. Future research should integrate the findings of proteomics with other omics data to facilitate both early diagnosis and the treatment of PD.

In this article, non-drug methods of treatment of Parkinson's disease are reviewed. Particular attention is given to the motor symptoms of disease, specifically to gait disorders. Information about objective methods of gait impairment is presented. Own results that confirm the effect of a method of tempo-rhythmical correction of walk in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and vascular parkinsonism as well as a device for assessment of gait parameters developed by the authors are analyzed. The efficacy of other methods of gait correction using external cues, study design and level of evidence are analyzed as well. Information about possibilities of physical therapy and ergotherapy for correction of different symptoms of Parkinson's disease is presented. Positive and negative results of transcranial magnetic stimulation, light therapy and transcranial micropolarization in PD are analyzed. Basis non-drug methods of PD treatment, which currently have insufficient level of evidence (methods of mental relaxation and auditory training, methods of whole body vibration (vibromassage), laser therapy (photoacoustic therapy), acupuncture), are described in brief. Perspectives of the method of gait recovery in PD using tempo-rhythmic correction are emphasized.
Falls in people with Parkinson's disease (PD) are frequent and recurrent events with devastating and widespread consequences. Despite this, understanding of the predictive and explanatory value of fall risk factors, as well as the development and testing of interventions aimed at reducing falls, are in their infancy. This review focuses on fall prediction and risk factors that are potentially remediable with physical interventions. We show that falls can be predicted with high accuracy using a simple three-step clinical tool. Evidence from recently published randomized controlled trials supports the implementation of balance-challenging exercises in reducing falls. Larger scale trials utilizing technologically advanced monitoring methods will further elucidate those interventions most likely to be cost effective according to individual risk factor profiles.
Parkinson's disease is the second most common neurodegenerative disease which affects almost 1 percent of the population above the age of 60. It is is characterized by loss of dopaminergic neurons in the striatum and substantia nigra, coupled with the formation of intracellular Lewy bodies in degenerating neurons. Recent evidence suggests endoplasmic reticulum stress as a common and prominent occurrence in the progression of Parkinson's disease pathogenesis in the affected human brain. One of the cellular defense mechanism to combat endoplasmic reticulum stress due to excessive protein accumulation is through activation of the unfolded protein response pathway. In this review we focus on the impact and role of this unfolded protein response as a causative factor of Parkinson's disease leading to neurodegeneration.
With estimates as high as 1 million patients in the United States, Parkinson's disease is a relatively common neurological disorder. It has long been thought that the primary biochemical disturbance in Parkinson's disease is dopamine related. Accordingly, many drugs have been developed that increase the supply of dopamine, affect the biochemical balance of dopamine, or act as a dopamine substitute. These drugs may have significant interactions with anesthetic agents. In addition, there are several disease and drug-induced physiological aberrancies that can have profound anesthetic implications in the patient with Parkinson's disease (e.g., aspiration pneumonitis, myocardial irritability, hypotension, hypertension, and respiratory impairment). Although surgical therapy for Parkinson's disease has a long history, with the advent of advanced neuroimaging techniques there has been a resurgence of these procedures (e.g., pallidotomy and thalamotomy) for advanced stages of Parkinson's disease. It is likely that these surgical procedures will become more commonplace, possibly prolonging the lifespan of patients with Parkinson's disease. Even though these cases are typically performed with local anesthesia, there are several important caveats to consider in the management of these patients (e.g., airway access with CNS changes, hypertension, and tremor). It's incumbent on anesthesiologists to become familiar with the special needs of patients with Parkinson's disease and alter the "days in hell" attitude among these patients toward surgery and anesthesia.
Disturbed sleep is common in Parkinson's disease and has a detrimental impact on functioning and quality of life. While the progression of the disease contributes to the aetiology of sleep problems in Parkinson's disease, it is unknown whether an individual's beliefs and attitudes about sleep play a role. In this study we sought to investigate whether dysfunctional beliefs and attitudes about sleep could be related to subjective and objective measures of sleep disturbance in Parkinson's disease. Ninety-three patients with Parkinson's disease completed the Dysfunctional Beliefs and Attitudes about Sleep 16 item questionnaire, which comprises four domains: Expectations, Worry/Helplessness, Consequences and Medication. Patients also completed the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index questionnaire and Beck Depression Inventory-II. Patients wore actigraphy watches and completed sleep diaries for 2 consecutive weeks, recording measures of sleep disturbance including Sleep Onset and Offset, Wake After Sleep Onset, Sleep Efficiency, and Wake Bouts per hour. Greater dysfunctional beliefs and attitudes in the domains of Worry/Helplessness and Medication were associated with lower perceived sleep quality and greater depressive symptoms. However, no relationships were found between dysfunctional beliefs and attitudes about sleep and any objective actigraphic measure of sleep disturbance. These findings suggest that beliefs and attitudes about sleep in Parkinson's disease are associated with mood disturbance, rather than objective measures of sleep. Thus it is possible that interventions targeting mood may lead to more accurate perceptions of sleep and improved quality of life in Parkinson's disease patients.

Parkinson's disease is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder leading to progressive motor impairment for which there is no cure. Currently, the diagnosis is made by the presence of cardinal motor features and several associated non-motor symptoms. However, at this point, the underlying neuropathological changes are already underway, and efforts in basic and clinical research have converged to suggest that Parkinson's disease actually begins well before symptom onset. As a result, the identification and development of disease-modifying therapies is difficult. In this review, we begin by summarizing what is known of disease pathogenesis in the context of early symptomatology. We then discuss the Parkinson's at-risk syndrome and highlight how this conceptual framework can be a useful for studies of early disease biomarkers and putative disease-modifying neurotherapeutics. With this framework, we discuss several clinical assessments, radiological studies and molecular assays that may be useful in early disease detection.
Approximately 50% of patients with Parkinson's disease experience clinical depression. Neurotransmitter deficits in depression and Parkinson's disease suggest a common lesion may be responsible for this high incidence. In addition to similar psychological profiles, the clinical features of Parkinson's disease and depression likewise overlap making the distinction difficult. Differentiating these two diseases is very important, as each is treatable. The neuroscience nurse is in a unique position to evaluate the patient with Parkinson's disease for signs and symptoms of depression.
Deep brain stimulation targeting the subthalamic nucleus or globus pallidus internus are highly effective for the symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease. The assessment and management of psychiatric issues is relevant to preoperative patient selection and to optimal postoperative outcomes. This chapter reviews the evidence on psychiatric symptoms in the perioperative state including suicidal behaviors, depression, anxiety, mania, apathy, and impulse control disorders.
The first issue of the British Journal of Hospital Medicine was published in October 1966 and included a symposium covering the neuropathology and treatment of Parkinson's disease. Could things have really changed that much in just 50 brief years?
This article on treatment of early idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) addresses the therapeutic management of the signs and symptoms of PD. It should be read with the understanding that there is more than one way to initiate and manage the early stages of PD.
The majority of patients with advanced Parkinson's disease are treated at specialized movement disorder centers. Currently, there is no clear consensus on how to define the stages of Parkinson's disease; the proportion of Parkinson's patients with advanced Parkinson's disease, the referral process, and the clinical features used to characterize advanced Parkinson's disease are not well delineated. The primary objective of this observational study was to evaluate the proportion of Parkinson's patients identified as advanced patients according to physician's judgment in all participating movement disorder centers across the study. Here we evaluate the Hungarian subset of the participating patients. The study was conducted in a cross-sectional, non-interventional, multi-country, multi-center format in 18 countries. Data were collected during a single patient visit. Current Parkinson's disease status was assessed with Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) parts II, III, IV, and V (modified Hoehn and Yahr staging). Non-motor symptoms were assessed using the PD Non-motor Symptoms Scale (NMSS); quality of life was assessed with the PD 8-item Quality-of-Life Questionnaire (PDQ-8). Parkinson's disease was classified as advanced versus non-advanced based on physician assessment and on questions developed by the Delphi method. Overall, 2627 patients with Parkinson's disease from 126 sites were documented. In Hungary, 100 patients with Parkinson's disease were documented in four movement disorder centers, and, according to the physician assessment, 50% of these patients had advanced Parkinson's disease. Their mean scores showed significantly higher impairment in those with, versus without advanced Parkinson's disease: UPDRS II (14.1 vs. 9.2), UPDRS IV Q32 (1.1 vs. 0.0) and Q39 (1.1 vs. 0.5), UPDRS V (2.8 vs. 2.0) and PDQ-8 (29.1 vs. 18.9). Physicians in Hungarian movement disorder centers assessed that half of the Parkinson's patients had advanced disease, with worse motor and non-motor symptom severity and worse QoL than those without advanced Parkinson's disease. Despite being classified as eligible for invasive/device-aided treatment, that treatment had not been initiated in 25% of these patients.

It has become increasingly evident over the last years that Parkinson's disease is a multicentric neurodegenerative disease that affects several neuronal structures outside the substantia nigra, among which is the enteric nervous system. The aims of the present article are to discuss the role of the enteric nervous system lesions in pathology spreading (Braak's hypothesis) and in the gastrointestinal dysfunction encountered in Parkinson's disease. Owing to its accessibility to biopsies, we further discuss the use of the enteric nervous system as an original source of biomarker in Parkinson's disease.
Normal maintenance of human motivation depends on the integrity of subcortical structures that link the prefrontal cortex with the limbic system. Structural and functional disruption of different networks within these circuits alters the maintenance of spontaneous mental activity and the capacity of affected individuals to associate emotions with complex stimuli. The clinical manifestations of these changes include a continuum of abnormalities in goal-oriented behaviours known as apathy. Apathy is highly prevalent in Parkinson's disease (and across many neurodegenerative disorders) and can severely affect the quality of life of both patients and caregivers. Differentiation of apathy from depression, and discrimination of its cognitive, emotional, and auto-activation components could guide an individualised approach to the treatment of symptoms. The opportunity to manipulate dopaminergic treatment in Parkinson's disease allows researchers to study a continuous range of motivational states, from apathy to impulse control disorders. Parkinson's disease can thus be viewed as a model that provides insight into the neural substrates of apathy.

Parkinson's disease affects more than 10 million people worldwide, and this number is expected to grow substantially during the next 25 years. Women are two thirds as likely as men to have Parkinson's disease. The symptoms associated with Parkinson's disease are complex and span a spectrum of motor and nonmotor manifestations. We provide an overview of Parkinson's disease, including sex-specific differences in prevalence, clinical presentation, diagnosis, and treatment.
The pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease, a neurodegenerative disorder, is multifaceted, having a variety of genetic and environmental factors. There is considerable evidence to support the role of toxins, particularly pesticides and herbicides, in at least some of those affected (presumably, mostly the genetically vulnerable). The pathogenesis of autism is no less complex, but little is known about the potential role of toxins for autism, a neurodevelopmental disorder. The incidence of autism appears to be rising, and early exposure to synthetic chemicals is one suspect for this rise. Impaired detoxification of certain chemicals may be common to autism and Parkinson's disease. Further study of environmental influences for either disorder may lead to important insights regarding causation for both, and perhaps for other neurodegenerative and neurodevelopmental disorders as well.
Critical to the successful application of deep brain stimulation for the treatment Parkinson's disease is the proper selection of patients who will reliably benefit from this procedure and the successful evaluation of the responses obtained. This review will discuss the various factors influencing patient selection and summarize the recommended approach to patient assessment by using the Core Assessment Program for Surgical Interventions and Transplantation in Parkinson's Disease (CAPSIT-PD).
This article examines the different forms of movement disorders, with a particular focus on Parkinson's disease. Screening strategies for Parkinson's disease are reviewed; these include biochemical measures, physiologic testing, positron-emission tomography, and early identification of symptoms by interview. Problems posed by the epidemiologic investigation of Parkinson's disease are considered.
While objective measurement is routine in clinical care of most conditions, this has not been the case for Parkinson's Disease. Recent innovations make objective measurement in Parkinson's Disease possible and its utility and how this should be assessed is discussed here. Areas covered: Whilst therapies are effective in Parkinson's Disease, symptoms fluctuate in relation to treatment over the course of the day. Objective measurement makes it possible to assess symptom control, whether treatment is required and whether it achieved control. Objective measurement makes it possible to consider targets for therapeutic control and to begin an assessment of the value of improved control. Evidence for the effect of improved measurement on outcomes is only beginning to emerge. As symptom severity relates to quality of life and costs, reducing clinical scores and fluctuations through objective measurement is in the interest of both the patient and the health system. Expert commentary: In broad terms objective measurement should be used to identify patients whose symptoms lie outside the target range and then to assess whether therapy was effective in bringing them into control. While this is relevant to all stages of Parkinson's Disease specific clinical situations where this had greatest impact are discussed.

The present understanding of the anatomy of the basal ganglia has been updated. Recent work has produced a primate model of Parkinson's disease for study of its pathogenesis and treatment. In the last two decades, administration of dopamine agonist has been the mainstay of treatment of Parkinson's disease in the humans. However, recent use of dopamine-rich tissue such as adrenal gland or human foetal cells is opening up a new frontier for the treatment of more severe Parkinsonism. Nevertheless, there is still much to be learned at the basic neuroscience level before such procedure could be used widely in clinical practice.
The discovery of levodopa in the late 60 s of twentieth century was a 'golden moment' for people with Parkinson's disease (PD). Unfortunately, clinical experience showed that some symptoms escaped from symptomatic control, and long-term complications developed. Back then, neurologists coined the term "honeymoon period" for the early phase of uncomplicated response to levodopa, and it continues to be used in scientific literature. However, medical terms are no longer restricted to professionals, and few people with PD relate to the notion of a "honeymoon". We examine the reasons why this term, once helpful, but inaccurate and inappropriate, should be abandoned.
Although the role of the vascular component in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease is widely accepted and retinal vascular abnormalities are commonly observed in Parkinson's disease patients, evidence connecting retinal vascular disorders with the risk of developing Parkinson's disease is limited. We aimed to investigate the association between retinal vascular occlusion (RVO) and the risk of developing Parkinson's disease in people over 60 years using a nationwide cohort. From the 14-year South Korean National Health Insurance Service-Senior cohort, 11 210 incident RVO patients and 11 210 propensity scores, risk-matched controls were included. The incidence of Parkinson's disease was estimated with a Poisson regression. A Cox proportional hazards regression model was used to investigate the associations between RVO and the risk of Parkinson's disease. The incidence of Parkinson's disease was 664.4 cases per 100 000 person-years (95% confidence interval [CI], 599.7-736.0) in the RVO cohort. Individuals with RVO had an increased incidence of Parkinson's disease (hazard ratio [HR], 1.28; 95% CI: 1.10-1.49). Increased PD risk was predominantly observed in retinal artery occlusion patients (HR, 1.53; 95% CI: 1.11-2.12), male patients (HR, 1.67; 95% CI: 1.29-2.17), and 5 years after diagnosis (HR, 1.46; 95% CI: 1.10-1.93). Our findings suggest that a common pathophysiological pathway, such as vasculature changes, may exist between RVO and Parkinson's disease. RVO may be one of the risk factors associated with future development of Parkinson's disease. The nature of this association warrants further investigation.

The diagnosis of Parkinson's disease remains a clinical diagnosis with no confirmatory laboratory or imaging studies available. The classic diagnostic criteria include 2 of 3 cardinal motor features of parkinsonism (resting tremor, cogwheel rigidity, and bradykinesia) on examination. Interest in a "premotor diagnosis" of Parkinson's disease is based on the hope that neuroprotective therapy could be initiated earlier and affect disease course. However, there is no proven method to diagnose Parkinson's disease prior to the onset of motor signs and there is no proven neuroprotective treatment. Once the diagnosis is made, the neurologist must decide, with the patient, whether to institute treatment at the time of diagnosis or whether to institute treatment when functional disability evolves. There are multiple possible initial pharmacologic choices for the initial treatment of Parkinson's disease, including monoamine oxidase type B inhibitors, dopamine receptor agonists, and levodopa/carbidopa.
Treatment options for patients with Parkinson's disease have rapidly expanded in the last five years. They now include pharmacologic therapies designed not only to improve parkinsonian symptoms, but also to prevent disease progression. In addition, neurosurgical options and other novel treatment strategies are being developed and may become clinically useful in the next decade. This chapter addresses current and evolving Parkinson's disease medications, future surgical interventions, and specific strategies for maximizing patient motor abilities.
Besides the classical motor symptoms, Parkinson's disease (PD) patients experience a wide range of nonmotor symptoms (NMS) throughout the disease course. However, due to the lack of recognition and understanding of the pathogenesis, NMS symptoms may be overlooked. Familial PD is a well-defined group that can provide a good model to investigate the mechanisms for both motor and NMS in PD. Some studies suggest that the frequency of NMS is not different between genetic and sporadic form of PD while others suggest that specific domains (such as neuropsychiatric symptoms) are more common in the genetic form. Early recognition of NMS may facilitate early diagnosis and monitoring of both sporadic and genetic PD.

Being a highly prevalent neurodegenerative disorder worldwide, Parkinson's disease (PD) shows its complexity not only in the variability of its pathology, but also in the complex constellation of its clinical picture. PD does not affect only the nervous system; instead, it is today recognized as having both motor and non-motor features. The purpose of this article is to report up-to-date information of an ongoing study, which correlates the motor features of Parkinson's disease (PD) with the visual disturbances (non-motor features) related to this disease. <b>Abbreviations:</b> PD = Parkinson's disease, HY = Hoehn-Yahr scale, MMSE = Mini-Mental state exam, UPDRS = Unified Parkinson's disease rating scale, RE = right eye, LE = left eye.
Cognitive and neuropsychiatric disturbances in Parkinson's disease are as common and as disabling as its well-known motor symptoms. Even though several neural substrates for these symptoms have been suggested, to which extent these symptoms reflect cortical neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease remains to be fully elucidated. In a representative sample of 44 Parkinson's disease patients, the data about the following symptoms was recorded: cognitive performance, apathy, depression and anxiety. Surface-based vertexwise multiple regression analyses were performed to investigate the cortical macro (cortical thinning) and microstructural (increased intracortical diffusivity) correlates of each symptom. A group of 18 healthy controls with similar sociodemographics was also included to assess the disease specificity of the neuroimaging results. Compared to healthy controls, Parkinson's disease patients showed significantly increased scores in all the considered non-motor scales (p < 0.01). Within the Parkinson's disease group, increased scores in these scales were associated with cortical macro- and microstructural neurodegeneration (p < 0.05 corrected). Each of the considered non-motor scales was associated with a specific pattern of cortical degeneration. When observing both neuroimaging techniques, intracortical diffusivity revealed similar but extensive patterns of cortical compromise than cortical thickness for each symptom, with the exception of anxiety. Cognitive and neuropsychiatric symptoms in Parkinson's disease reflect cortical degeneration. Increases in intracortical diffusivity were able to detect symptom-specific cortical microstructural damage in the absence of cortical thinning. A better understanding of this association may contribute to characterize the brain circuitry and the neurotransmitter pathways underlying these highly prevalent and debilitating symptoms in Parkinson's disease.
Parkinson's disease pathology is hypothesized to spread through the brain via axonal connections between regions and is further modulated by local vulnerabilities within those regions. The resulting changes to brain morphology have previously been demonstrated in both prodromal and de novo Parkinson's disease patients. However, it remains unclear whether the pattern of atrophy progression in Parkinson's disease over time is similarly explained by network-based spreading and local vulnerability. We address this gap by mapping the trajectory of cortical atrophy rates in a large, multi-centre cohort of Parkinson's disease patients and relate this atrophy progression pattern to network architecture and gene expression profiles. Across 4-year follow-up visits, increased atrophy rates were observed in posterior, temporal, and superior frontal cortices. We demonstrated that this progression pattern was shaped by network connectivity. Regional atrophy rates were strongly related to atrophy rates across structurally and functionally connected regions. We also found that atrophy progression was associated with specific gene expression profiles. The genes whose spatial distribution in the brain was most related to atrophy rate were those enriched for mitochondrial and metabolic function. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that both global and local brain features influence vulnerability to neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease.
Parkinson's disease is a complex disorder with many fascinating features. Its onset is creeping, the progression is slow but inevitable. There are motor symptoms, such as a tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia, mask-like facial expression, and postural abnormalities, but also hallucinations, cognitive deterioration, and depression. In many novels, fictive patients with Parkinson's disease play a role. It seems that authors have used many aspects of the disease to emphasize their messages. Their narratives include themes such as rigidity, petrifaction, confusion, dementia, and hallucinations. In this chapter, as examples, several protagonists with Parkinson's disease will be described from works of John Updike, Jonathan Franzen, Sue Miller, J.M. Coetzee, and John Harding, among others.

The Sidney De Haan Research Centre for Arts and Health published an overview of evidence that group singing can benefit people with Parkinson's disease (PD).
Nonmotor fluctuations (NMF) in Parkinson's disease are nonmotor symptoms that occur in coincidence with motor fluctuations or independently. Long under-assessed, NMF are now recognized as frequent and sometimes involving a greater degree of disability than motor fluctuations. They can be classified in three categories: dysautonomic, cognitive/psychiatric and sensory/pain. Recognition of these nonmotor fluctuations as part of Parkinson's disease has important implications. Some symptoms such as dyspnea, chest pain, or abdominal pains can mimic cardiac or gastrointestinal emergencies. The underlying pathogenic mechanisms of NMF are not well known. The dopaminergic system is probably involved via modulation of other systems (serotoninergic, adrenergic) since NMF usually respond to dopaminergic treatment. Subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation alleviates NMF-- particularly sensory, dysautonomic and cognitive fluctuations--while psychic fluctuations respond less consistently to this treatment. The development of new instruments that enable a comprehensive and precocious assessment of NMF is important for optimized management of advanced Parkinson's disease.
Recently, there has been a surge in the research regarding the pharmacologic and surgical treatment of Parkinson's disease. This article reviews the latest modes of medical and surgical therapy for Parkinson's disease. The latest drug therapy has consisted of levodopa, a combination of levodopa and carbidopa (Sinemet/Sinemet CR), and monoamine oxidase type B (MAO-B) inhibitors (selegiline hydrochloride). The surgical treatment modalities have been stereotaxic implantations of dopamine-producing tissues (such as adrenal medulla and fetal mesencephalon) into the caudate nucleus and ventral pallidotomy of patients with Parkinson's disease. The most recent work has been in the field of gene therapy. The implantation of cells genetically modified to express trophic factors and tyrosine hydroxylase for the synthesis of L-dopa from tyrosine has been proposed as a possible route for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Although the etiology of the disease is still unknown, two recent theories are discussed.

The diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD) follows the UK Brain Bank Criteria, which demands bradykinesia and one additional symptom, i.e. rigidity, resting tremor or postural instability. The latter is not a useful sign for the early diagnosis of PD, because it does not appear before Hoehn and Yahr stage 3. Early symptoms of PD which precede the onset of motor symptoms are hyposmia, REM sleep behavioral disorder, constipation, and depression. In addition, an increasing number of patients whose PD is related to a genetic defect are being described. Thus, genetic testing may eventually develop into a tool to identify at-risk patients. The clinical diagnosis of PD can be supported by levodopa or apomorphine tests. Imaging studies such as cranial CT or MRI are helpful to distinguish idiopathic PD from atypical or secondary PD. SPECT and PET methods are valuable to distinguish PD tremor from essential tremor if this is clinically not possible. Using all of these methods, we may soon be able to make a premotor diagnosis of PD, which will raise the question whether early treatment is possible and ethically and clinically advisable.
Apathy is a loss of motivation compared to the previous level of functioning of the subject. It affects the subject's behavior, cognition and emotional state. It is one of the main behavioral manifestations of Parkinson's disease. Although it may be a symptom of depression, it often exists as an isolated syndrome in Parkinson's disease patients. Apathy is usually not related to the severity of the motor symptoms, but frequently associated with the severity of cognitive impairment. Apathy is also a possible complication of treatment by stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus. Screening and assessment of apathy require the use of specific tools, some of which are validated in Parkinson's disease. From a pathophysiological point of view, apathy results from a dysfunction of the limbic circuit connecting the ventral striatum to orbitofrontal and anterior cingulate cortex. The dopaminergic denervation in these regions seems to play a key role, but other mechanisms are probably involved. Further studies are warranted to progress in the therapeutic management of this invalidating syndrome.
This systematic review explores the effects of dysphagia treatment for Parkinson's disease. The review includes rehabilitative, surgical, pharmacologic, and other treatments. Only oropharyngeal dysphagia is selected for this literature search, excluding dysphagia due to esophageal or gastric disorders. The effects of deep brain stimulation on dysphagia are not included. In general, the literature concerning dysphagia treatment in Parkinson's disease is rather limited. Most effect studies show diverse methodologic problems. Multiple case studies and trials are identified by searching biomedical literature databases PubMed and Embase, and by hand-searching reference lists. The conclusions of most studies cannot be compared with one another because of heterogeneous therapy methods and outcome measures. Further research based on randomized controlled trials to determine the effectiveness of different therapies for dysphagia in Parkinson's disease is required.
The results of selected clinical research projects related to epidemiological, genetic, pharmacological, kinesiological, and neuroimaging aspects (SPECT, PET, MRI, functional MRI) of basal ganglia disorders such as Parkinson's disease, Progressive Supranuclear Palsy, Multiple System Atrophy and Wilson's disease are summarized. A retrospective pharmacoeconomic analysis of Parkinson's disease is presented. These studies are part of a nationwide research program of the German ministry of research and technology (BMFT) entitled "Parkinson's disease and other basal ganglia disorders" and were carried out at the Department of Neurology, LMU München.

Parkinson's disease is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder and, at present, has no cure. Both environmental and genetic factors have been implicated in the etiology of the disease; however, the pathogenic pathways leading to neuronal degeneration are still unclear. Parkinson's disease is characterized by the preferential death of a subset of neurons in the mesencephalon that use dopamine as neurotransmitter for synaptic communication. Dopamine is a highly reactive molecule that can lead to cytotoxicity if not properly stored and metabolized. Targeting any of the pathways that tightly control this neurotransmitter holds great therapeutic expectations. In this article we present a comprehensive overview of the cellular pathways that control dopamine fate and discuss potential therapeutic approaches to counteract or slow Parkinson's disease onset and progression.
The global explosion of COVID-19 necessitated the rapid dissemination of information regarding SARS-CoV-2. Hence, COVID-19 prevalence and outcome data in Parkinson's disease patients were disseminated at a time when we only had part of the picture. In this chapter we firstly discuss the current literature on the prevalence of COVID-19 in people with PD. We then discuss outcomes from COVID-19 in people with PD, specifically risk of hospitalization and mortality. Finally, we discuss specific contributing and confounding factors which may put PD patients at higher or lower risk from COVID-19.

The needs of people with Parkinson's disease (PD) go beyond the purely medical domain and often require collaborative management. A Panel Discussion at the "Hither neurology" Symposium included neurologists, a speech therapist, a geriatrician and a sociologist. Their discussion highlighted certain aspects of the disability and disadvantage associated with PD. The starting point was a video recording, "Parkinson's Disease: the personal view", in which the contributors were patients and carers. Topics covered included counselling at the time of diagnosis; subsequent access to clinics and to neurological advice; access to therapy; support in the community; fluctuating disability associated with "on-off" phenomena; driving; and sexual problems.
Although components of possible Parkinson's disease can be found in very early documents, the first clear medical description was written in 1817 by James Parkinson. In the mid-1800s, Jean-Martin Charcot was particularly influential in refining and expanding this early description and in disseminating information internationally about Parkinson's disease. He separated Parkinson's disease from multiple sclerosis and other disorders characterized by tremor, and he recognized cases that later would likely be classified among the Parkinsonism-plus syndromes. Early treatments of Parkinson's disease were based on empirical observation, and anticholinergic drugs were used as early as the nineteenth century. The discovery of dopaminergic deficits in Parkinson's disease and the synthetic pathway of dopamine led to the first human trials of levodopa. Further historically important anatomical, biochemical, and physiological studies identified additional pharmacological and neurosurgical targets for Parkinson's disease and allow modern clinicians to offer an array of therapies aimed at improving function in this still incurable disease.
Parkinson's disease(PD), a neurodegenerative disorder is caused due to damage in the dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra, a part of the midbrain. The disease is characterized by motor symptoms such as tremor, rigidity, akinesia, and bradykinesia. PD is a systemic disease associated with non-motor manifestations such as autonomic neuropathy, depression, behavioral disorders, sleep disorders, cognitive dysfunction, and sensory disorders. Diagnosis of PD was based on the UK Parkinson's Disease Society Brain Bank clinical diagnostic criteria. However, new diagnostic criteria were recently proposed by the International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society in 2015. This paper describes the diagnosis and drug therapies in Parkinson's disease and discusses the criteria and timing of surgical treatment for the advanced stage of Parkinson's disease.
The diagnosis of Parkinson's disease is one of the current challenges in the neurology. The development of imaging techniques (volumetric and diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging and ultrasonography), and functional neuroimaging (single photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography) in recent years has opened new research fields, and are useful as diagnostic tools. Anyway the diagnosis is still a clinical process, and it should be reconsidered at each visit.
We introduce a sensor-fitted cap to unobtrusively monitor hypomimia while allowing patients to manage their data autonomously. Thereby, providing insights into symptom progression and treatment response. This patient-centered tool holds promise for routine clinical use and enhancing therapeutic precision.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common, debilitating, neurodegenerative disorder characterized by neuronal loss within the basal ganglia and insufficient levels of the neurotransmitter dopamine. Symptoms include resting tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia (slowness of voluntary movement), and postural disturbances. Exact cause is unknown, but theories surrounding environmental or endogenous toxicities have been suggested. Differential diagnoses include genetic and other neurologic disorders that may share symptoms similar to those seen in PD. Clinical progression has been categorized into three phases of the disease: early, nonfluctuating, and fluctuating. Medications generally offer good symptom relief during the early and nonfluctuating phases of the disease. Classifications of anti-PD medications include anticholinergics, dopamine agonists, amantadine, MAO-B inhibitors, levodopa-carbidopa, and Catechol-o-methyl transferase inhibitors. Surgical intervention may be an option for select patients whose conditions are not well controlled though medical management strategies. Primary care providers often can manage patients in the early stage of PD, but later stages require expert neurologic management. Patient/family education and anticipatory guidance is imperative.

Biomarkers for detecting the early stages of Parkinson's disease (PD) could accelerate development of new treatments. Such biomarkers could be used to identify individuals at risk for developing PD, to improve early diagnosis, to track disease progression with precision, and to test the efficacy of new treatments. Although some progress has been made, there are many challenges associated with developing biomarkers for detecting PD in its earliest stages.
Parkinson's disease (PD) can cause postural instability, which may result in falls. These issues have been associated with motor and non-motor symptoms (NMS), including cognitive dysfunction. Several techniques have been employed to investigate the underlying neural mechanisms involved in postural control in PD. These include behavioural studies assessing associations between cognition and postural control, functional neuroimaging studies, and resting-state neural correlates. This review provides an overview of these emerging bodies of research. Scopus, PubMed, and ProQuest were searched and detailed the brain-imaging technique, cohort, and postural control measures. A total of 79 studies were identified. Findings supported the notion of cortical involvement in postural control function to compensate for subcortical damage resulting from PD. Future studies should standardise their outcome measures and data analysis to allow comparisons of results across studies and ensure more comprehensive and robust data collection to enhance the reliability and validity of these findings.
In coming years Parkinson's disease will become increasingly prevalent as the baby boom generation grows older. Diagnosis often is complicated and requires careful consideration of symptoms and neurologic findings. Optimal symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease involves an individualized approach with each patient and ongoing evaluation of benefits versus side effects. Neurosurgical intervention is an option for some patients who are not adequately helped by medical therapy. New treatments (e.g., stem cell therapy) are currently being studied and may be available in the foreseeable future.
Tremor is commonly the first neurologic sign of Parkinson's disease (PD) that leads patients to see a physician. Knowing how to differentiate the resting tremor of PD from essential tremor is an important diagnostic skill. Unlike patients with essential tremor, those with PD have other neurologic findings. A diagnosis of PD is likely if the patient has two of three major clinical features: resting tremor, bradykinesia, and rigidity. Minor signs may also be seen, including cognitive slowing, speech abnormalities, depression, dysautonomia, and sleep disturbances. The history and physical exam can determine if the patient has parkinsonism and whether the cause is Parkinson's disease.

Parkinson's disease (PD) involves well-known motor symptoms such as tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia, and altered gait, but there are also nonlocomotory motor symptoms (e.g., changes in handwriting and speech) and even nonmotor symptoms (e.g., disrupted sleep, depression) that can be measured, monitored, and possibly better managed through activity-based monitoring technologies. This will enhance quality of life (QoL) in PD through improved self-monitoring and also provide information that could be shared with a healthcare provider to help better manage treatment. Until recently, nonmotor symptoms ("soft signs") had been generally overlooked in clinical management, yet these are of primary importance to patients and their QoL. Day-to-day variability of the condition, the high variability in symptoms between patients, and the isolated snapshots of a patient in periodic clinic visits make better monitoring essential to the proper management of PD. Continuously monitored patterns of activity, social interactions, and daily activities could provide a rich source of information on status changes, guiding self-correction and clinical management. The same tools can be useful in earlier detection of PD and will improve clinical studies. Remote medical communications in the form of telemedicine, sophisticated tracking of medication use, and assistive technologies that directly compensate for disease-related challenges are examples of other near-term technology solutions to PD problems. Ultimately, a sensor technology is not good if it is not used. The Parkinson's community is a sophisticated early adopter of useful technologies and a group for which engineers can provide near-term gratifying benefits.

To specify the existing relationship between Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) and Lewy body dementia (LBD), it is necessary to retrace the natural history of an histopathological lesion, which, although being non-specific, is essential for a precise diagnosis, the Lewy body. The occurrence of Lewy bodies in Parkinson's disease, as in the other two types of dementia, unveils a potential continuum between these affections, which could be reunited under the term of alpha-synucleinopathy. However, defining the modalities of various types of alpha-synucleinopathy has not been historically based on the notion of a continuum. Thus, their nosological framework remains imprecise and controversial. Nevertheless, the LBD and PDD clinical, radiological and neuropathological expressions reveal many similarities. Their clinical distinction could then seem quite arbitrary. Furthermore, some studies underline the relationships between the various "proteinopathies" described in the degenerative dementias (Lewy body dementia, Parkinson's disease dementia and Alzheimer's disease). Finally, the role played by associated vascular lesions needs to be specified. It becomes essential to better define the boundaries of these cerebral neurodegenerative diseases. The perspective of common physiopathological mechanisms and certain vulnerability profiles could lead to new therapeutic pathways.
Relatively subtle deterioration of the motor system likely occurs well before the patient meets established motor criteria for a clinical diagnosis of Parkinson's disease; ie, the occurrence of at least 2 of the cardinal motor deficits: bradykinesia, rigidity, tremor, and/or postural instability. Powerful compensatory mechanisms may mask these clinical symptoms and make them difficult to identify and evaluate in the earliest stages of the illness. This review summarizes our current knowledge of motor signs that are thought to occur in the prodromal phase of Parkinson's disease and suggests how motor assessment batteries could be designed to detect these subclinical motor deficits with a high degree of accuracy and sensitivity.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a frequent and complex progressive neurological disorder that increases in incidence with age. Although historically PD has been characterized by the presence of progressive dopaminergic neuronal loss of the substantia nigra, the disease process also involves neurotransmitters other that dopamine and regions of the nervous system outside the basal ganglia. Its clinical presentation in elderly subjects differs from that in younger subjects, with more rapid progression, less frequent tremor, more pronounced axial signs, more frequent non-motor signs linked to concomitant degeneration of non-dopaminergic systems, and more frequent associated lesions. Despite the high prevalence of PD in elderly subjects, few therapeutic trials have been conducted in geriatric patients. Nevertheless, to improve functional disability while ensuring drug tolerance, the principles of optimized and multidisciplinary clinical management have to be known. The aim of this review is to provide an update on clinical and therapeutic features of PD specifically observed in elderly subjects.
Parkinson's disease is a progressive, neurodegenerative condition with no known cure. People with the condition can have complex palliative care needs similar to those of cancer patients. This article describes the four stages of Parkinson's disease, and illustrates how nurses can apply the principles of palliative care to support and care at each stage.
In this literature review, the authors summarize the data on affective disorders in Parkinson's disease (frequency, clinical presentations, treatment), the results on using transcranial magnetic stimulation, its safety in Parkinson's disease.
Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by bradykinesia, resting tremor and rigidity. Pathologically, Parkinson's disease is defined by the presence of Lewy bodies, which result from the aggregation of alpha-synuclein. Braak, et al. have proposed that the aggregation of alpha-synuclein pathology in Parkinson's disease begins in the medulla oblongata and progresses predictably, reaching the substantia nigra in the midbrain after affecting the brain stem. Apart from the motor symptoms of the disease, non-motor symptoms may precede the evoked potentials, and these include cognitive dysfunction, psychiatric disorder, sleep disorders and autonomic dysfunction. To describe and discuss the non-motor symptoms and diagnostic tests and procedures which may provide a pre-motor diagnosis of Parkinson's disease. Non-motor symptoms are now accepted as an integral part of the clinical spectrum of Parkinson's disease and there is evidence to suggest that olfactory dysfunction and sleep disturbances may occur before motor signs. The presence of various non-motor symptoms in conjunction with imaging studies has the potential to detect patients with Parkinson's disease in the pre-motor phase. Nevertheless, a larger number of studies are required, in particular cohort design of subjects in risk.
People with Parkinson's disease often experience full symptom relief during the first five years of treatment, but motor fluctuations often develop after this. A multidisciplinary team approach will help reduce disability and improve quality of life.


The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical efficacy of deep brain stimulation (DBS) and subthalamic nuclei stimulation (STN) in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. A total of 32 patients with Parkinson's disease who continuously treated in our hospital with STN-DBS from November 2011 to November 2013 were selected. All the patients received follow-up evaluation, psychological status questionnaire survey and analysis before surgery and 3 months after surgery using unified Parkinson's disease rating scale (UPDRS), Self-rating depression scale (SDS), and symptom checklist (SCL-90). After turned on the impulse generator (IPG), the daily activities and motor function of UPDRS in all the 32 cases of Parkinson's disease patients were in "turn off" state; the mean improvement rates were 51.7 and 60.9%; when the daily activities and motor function in the state of "turn on", the mean improvement rates were 21.4 and 22.3%. In 20 cases, the preoperative SDS > 50, the levels of depression, anxiety, somatization, interpersonal sensitivity, hostility, fear, and paranoia of SCL-90 were significant higher than the Chinese traditional levels (P < 0.05). Comparison of the preoperative and postoperative depression, somatization, fear, anxiety, and psychotic factor of SCL-90 found that there was negative correlation between preoperation and postoperation, and the differences were significant (P < 0.05), while there were no significant differences in interpersonal sensitivity and paranoia (P > 0.05). STN-DBS can improve the motor function and ability of daily life of Parkinson's disease patients and can significantly improve the psychological condition of the patients with Parkinson's disease and depression; it is a safe and effective method to the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

Non-motor symptoms are a key component of Parkinson's disease, possibly representing a clinical biomarker of its premotor phase. The burden of non-motor symptoms can define a patient's health-related quality of life. Non-motor symptoms substantially increase the cost of care-requiring increased hospitalisation and treatment-and pose a major challenge to healthcare professionals. However, clinicians often regard non-motor symptoms and their management as peripheral to that of the motor symptoms. Here, we address the clinical issues and unmet needs of non-motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease.
UK guidelines recommend palliative care access for people with Parkinson's disease; however, this remains sporadic, and it is unknown whether specialist palliative care helps patients and carers cope with this distressing condition. This study aimed to explore whether, and how, access to specialist palliative care services affected patients' and carers' coping with Parkinson's disease. Semistructured interviews were conducted, audio-recorded and verbatim transcribed. Data were analysed using interpretative phenomenological analysis. Participants were patients with advanced idiopathic Parkinson's disease (n=3), and carers of people with Parkinson's disease (n=5, however, one diagnosis was reviewed) receiving care from an integrated specialist palliative care and Parkinson's disease service in North East England. Access to specialist palliative care helped participants cope with some aspects of advanced Parkinson's disease. Three superordinate themes were developed:' managing uncertainty', 'impacts on the self' and 'specialist palliative care maintaining a positive outlook'. Specialist palliative care helped patients and carers cope with advanced Parkinson's disease. Specialist palliative care is a complex intervention that acknowledges the complex and holistic nature of Parkinson's disease, enabling health in some domains despite continued presence of pathology. These exploratory findings support the utility of this approach for people living with Parkinson's disease.
Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disease that mostly occurs in middle-aged and elderly people. It is characterized by progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and aggregation of Lewy bodies, resulting in a series of motor symptoms and non-motor symptoms. Depression is the most important manifestation of non-motor symptoms, which seriously affects the quality of life of patients. Clinicians often use antidepressant drugs to improve the depressive symptoms of patients with Parkinson 's disease, but it is still urgent to solve the problems of drug side effects and drug resistance caused by such methods. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation is a safe and non-invasive neuromodulation technique that can change the excitability of the corticospinal tract, induce the release of dopamine and other neurotransmitters, and further improve the depressive symptoms of patients with Parkinson 's disease. Based on this, this paper discusses and summarizes the research progress on the efficacy and potential mechanism of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation for improving depression in Parkinson 's disease at home and abroad, in order to provide reference for related clinical application research.
One in seven people diagnosed with Parkinson's disease will be aged less than 50 years. The medical management of young-onset Parkinson's disease is complicated and a multidisciplinary approach to care is vital to meet the psychological, emotional and social needs of people with Parkinson's disease and their carers.
<b>Aim:</b> This study investigates perspectives on computer-based assessments among elderly individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD) in India for more efficient usability of digital assessments for this population. <b>Materials & methods:</b> Content analysis was conducted on 30 participants diagnosed with PD, who were interviewed for their preferences and perspectives on integrating technology in healthcare assessments. <b>Results:</b> Elderly individuals with PD in India favored paper-pencil assessments over computer-based alternatives due to limited technological familiarity, resistance to change, lack of trust in healthcare technology and PD-related motor challenges. <b>Conclusion:</b> Elderly patients with Parkinson's in India indicated their discomfort with computer-based based cognitive assessment. Addressing barriers toward digital assessments in India is crucial for their successful implementation in healthcare.
Apathy was defined by Marin as diminished motivation not attributable to diminished level of consciousness, cognitive impairment, or emotional distress. Up to 42% of Parkinson's disease patients could be concerned. It has a pejorative impact on quality of life and could be predictive of cognitive decline. It has been shown that deep brain stimulation in Parkinson's disease may induce apathy. It seems directly related to the stimulation target, i.e. the subthalamic nucleus, since such an effect has not been observed so far in thalamic and pallidal stimulation. It should certainly not make us question the remarkable effectiveness of subthalamic stimulation in Parkinson's disease patients, but encourages us to be very careful about operability criteria. We must, in this sense, improve identification of at risk patients, seeking a thoroughly diminished motivation, loss of interest or blunting affects.
A body of clinical and pathologic evidence supports the concept that there a pre-Parkinson state exists prior to the time when Parkinson's disease (PD) can be formally diagnosed. The ability to define a the preclinical or prodromal PD state has many important implications. First, understanding the timing and sequence of pathologic change that occurs in PD could provide important clues as to the etiology and pathogenesis of PD, and provide insight into cell vulnerability factors. Second, defining a population of patients with preclinical PD would provide a potentially important group of subjects for clinical trials attempting to define disease-modifying therapies. And, finally, being able to determine that a person has PD at an earlier time point than is currently possible would permit the introduction of a putative disease-modifying therapy at a time when it could have more profound and long-lasting effects. This paper reviews the clinical significance of defining preclinical PD.
The diagnosis of Parkinson's disease is purely a clinical diagnosis. The most common types of diagnostic error are a failure either to recognize the early, or unusual symptoms, or to differentiate other tremors and extrapyramidal syndromes from Parkinson's disease. The prevalence of Parkinson's disease is increasing. This has resulted from the reduction of the excess mortality by levodopa treatment. In the near future, there will be more older parkinsonian patients with a more prolonged duration of the disease.

Parkinson's disease is a chronic and degenerative condition. Rather than effecting a cure, the nurse's role in caring for those with this condition is to enable them to live as independent a life as possible.
A considerable proportion of patients with Parkinson's disease report having affected relatives. However, anamnestic data obtained from probands on the occurrence of secondary cases among their relatives are of limited value. In considering the possible role of heredity in Parkinson's disease it is necessary to carefully distinguish between the disease and other disorders such as essential tremor and olivopontocerebellar atrophy which may manifest parkinsonian features. Controlled family studies have shown only a very slight excess of secondary cases among index siblings as compared to spouse siblings. The concordance rate for Parkinson's disease among identical twins is extraordinarily low and does not significantly exceed that among fraternal twins or that expected from the prevalence rate among siblings found in the controlled family studies. The available evidence indicates that heredity plays no significant role in the etiology of Parkinson's disease. Consequently the disease must be considered to be acquired.
Parkinson's disease is a complex, multifaceted, degenerative neurological condition which is becoming increasingly frequent as a result of the ageing of our population. It presents many challenges in management, which are not always most comprehensively addressed by a purely "medical" approach. This presentation outlines a rehabilitational, multidisciplinary team-based approach to the management of many aspects of this condition.
In the search for the cause of Parkinson's disease epidemiology serves several purposes. Valuable clues to the etiology may be derived from the epidemiological features of the disease, and the subsequent search for risk factors in analytical studies can be narrowed correspondingly. On the other hand, knowledge of the epidemiology of Parkinson's disease is necessary in creating etiological hypotheses, since only hypotheses consistent with the epidemiological profile deserve careful testing.
The association between environmental exposures and Parkinson's disease continues to garner interest. In the late 1980s, Barbeau et al. reported in the Canadian Journal of Neurological Sciences a heterogeneous distribution of Parkinson's disease cases across the province of Québec by hydrographic region. Here we report the findings of a validation study based on data obtained from the Québec medication insurance program-information which was unavailable to the previous group. Similar to Barbeau et al., our analysis showed a heterogeneous distribution of cases across the province with higher prevalence in the same region of interest, in addition to other areas.


For decades clinicians have postulated a characteristic preexisting personality in patients who develop Parkinson's disease (PD). They are described as moralistic, law-abiding, conscientious, and averse to risk-taking. The limited personality surveys tend to be confirmatory, but most of the literature is anecdotal or replete with unprovable psychodynamic postulates. In addition to an apparent stability of marriages and lack of alcoholism, patients with PD are less likely than controls to be smokers. It has been suggested that nicotine and its byproducts are not actually protective against PD, and it could be postulated that higher-than-average intrinsic dopamine may facilitate addiction. Smoking for the patient who is later to develop PD may be particularly unrewarding. In addition, the postulated personality for PD may predispose to hard work, perspiration, and increased exposure to putative trace elements in the water supply.


Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor and non-motor symptoms, with emerging research suggesting a critical link between intestinal dysbiosis and PD progression. This review explores the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying PD, such as alpha-synuclein aggregation, mitochondrial dysfunction, neuroinflammation, and oxidative stress, while focusing on the impact of gut dysbiosis on intestinal barrier function and its role in reduced neurochemical production. The clinical features of PD, including dopamine, serotonin, and GABA deficiencies, are examined, with a focus on how dysbiosis contributes to neurotransmitter depletion. Current treatments of PD, such as levodopa and dopamine agonists, are discussed alongside gut health therapies such as probiotics, prebiotics, and Fecal Microbiota Transplantation (FMT). Future therapeutic directions, including synbiotics, engineered microbes, phage therapy, and the integration of machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI), are explored. The chapter also considers preventive strategies, such as lifestyle adjustments and early gut health monitoring using modern diagnostic tools and biosensors. Furthermore, a strong need for continued research into the gut-brain axis (GBA) to develop more effective, gut-targeted therapies for managing PD is discussed.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex, progressive neurodegenerative disorder with high heterogeneity, making early diagnosis difficult. Early detection and intervention are crucial for slowing PD progression. Understanding PD's diverse pathways and mechanisms is key to advancing knowledge. Recent advances in noninvasive imaging and multi-omics technologies have provided valuable insights into PD's underlying causes and biological processes. However, integrating these diverse data sources remains challenging, especially when deriving meaningful low-level features that can serve as diagnostic indicators. This study developed and validated a novel integrative, multimodal predictive model for detecting PD based on features derived from multimodal data, including hematological information, proteomics, RNA sequencing, metabolomics, and dopamine transporter scan imaging, sourced from the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative. Several model architectures were investigated and evaluated, including support vector machine, eXtreme Gradient Boosting, fully connected neural networks with concatenation and joint modeling (FCNN_C and FCNN_JM), and a multimodal encoder-based model with multi-head cross-attention (MMT_CA). The MMT_CA model demonstrated superior predictive performance, achieving a balanced classification accuracy of 97.7%, thus highlighting its ability to capture and leverage cross-modality inter-dependencies to aid predictive analytics. Furthermore, feature importance analysis using SHapley Additive exPlanations not only identified crucial diagnostic biomarkers to inform the predictive models in this study but also holds potential for future research aimed at integrated functional analyses of PD from a multi-omics perspective, ultimately revealing targets required for precision medicine approaches to aid treatment of PD aimed at slowing down its progression.
Parkinson's disease (PD) has a prodromal phase during which nonmotor clinical features as well as physiological abnormalities may be present. These premotor markers could be used to screen for PD before motor abnormalities are present. The technology to identify PD before it reaches symptomatic Braak Stage 3 (substantia nigra compacta [SNc] involvement) already exists. The current challenge is to define the appropriate scope of use of predictive testing for PD. Imaging technologies such as dopamine transporter imaging currently offer the highest degree of accuracy for identifying premotor PD, but they are expensive as screening tools, and abnormalities on these studies would only be evident at Braak Stage 3 or higher. Efficiency is greatly enhanced by combining imaging with a prescreening test such as olfactory testing. This 2-step process has the potential to greatly reduce costs while retaining diagnostic accuracy. Alternatively, or in concert with this approach, evaluating high-risk populations (eg, patients with rapid eye movement behavior disorder or LRRK2 mutations) would enrich the sample for cases with underlying PD. Ultimately, the role of preclinical detection of PD will be determined by the ability of emerging therapies to influence clinical outcomes. As such, implementation of large-scale screening strategies awaits the arrival of clearly safe and effective therapies that address the underlying pathogenesis of PD. Future research will establish more definitive biomarkers capable of revealing the presence of disease in advance of SNc involvement with the promise of the potential for introducing disease-modifying therapy even before the development of evidence of dopamine deficiency.
Recent findings question our present understanding of Parkinson's disease and suggest that new research criteria for the diagnosis of Parkinson's disease are needed, similar to those recently defined in Alzheimer's disease. However, our ability to redefine Parkinson's disease is hampered by its complexity and heterogeneity in genetics, phenotypes, and underlying molecular mechanisms; the absence of biochemical markers or ability to image Parkinson's disease-specific histopathological changes; the long prodromal period during which non-motor manifestations might precede classic motor manifestations; and uncertainty about the status of disorders diagnosed clinically as Parkinson's disease but without Lewy pathology. Although it is too early to confidently redefine Parkinson's disease, the time has come to establish a research framework that could lead to new diagnostic criteria. We propose the establishment of three tiers encompassing clinical features, pathological findings, and genetics or molecular mechanisms. Specific advances in each tier, bridged by neuroimaging and biochemical data, will eventually lead to a redefinition of Parkinson's disease.
Neurologists play an essential role in facilitating the patient's process of living with Parkinson's disease (PD). The Living with Chronic Illness Scale-PD (LW-CI-PD) is a unique available clinical tool that evaluates how the patient is living with PD. The objective of the study was to analyse the LW-CI-PD properties according to the Rasch model. An open, international, cross-sectional study was carried out in 324 patients with Parkinson's disease from four Latin American countries and Spain. Psychometric properties of the LW-CI-PD were tested using Rasch analysis: fit to the Rasch model, item local independency, unidimensionality, reliability, and differential item functioning by age and gender. Original LW-CI-PD do not fit Rasch model. Modifications emerged included simplifying the response scale and deleting misfit items, the dimensions Acceptance, Coping and Integration showed a satisfactory fit to the Rasch model, with reliability indices greater than 0.70. The dimensions Self-management and Adjustment to the disease did not reach fit to the Rasch model. Suggestions for improving the LW-CI-PD include a multidimensional and shorter scale with 12 items grouped in three subscales with a simpler response scheme. The final LW-CI-PD Scale version is a reliable scale, with good internal construct validity, that provides Rasch transformed results on linear metric scale.


Regular physical activity is of great relevance in Parkinson's disease. As part of the project "Individualized training program for Parkinson's disease patients" (ParkProTrain), a tablet-based program was developed to support individual self-training. It has been tested over a period of 9 months in domestic settings. Patients were asked about the feasibility of use and satisfaction. Patients who used the program at home following inpatient Parkinson's complex treatment (PCT) were interviewed twice (9 and 36 weeks after PCT). The program helped patients to stay motivated throughout the interventional period. It provided them with both structure and flexibility to develop their own training routine. The following were named as positive aspects (success factors), including: the introductory seminars in the clinic, the close supervision during the interventional period, the soundness and Parkinson's specificity, the feasibility and manageability of the program and the individualized training plans; however, patients also provided information on how the program could still be optimized (barriers). The program has already successfully implemented a number of aspects that promote activity. Further recommendations were derived for future use, to which more attention should be paid: Parkinson's specificity and individualization of the program, flexible training in terms of location and time, close and personal support throughout the study period and the technique should be designed to be easy to learn and manage.
The present study demonstrated that individuals with Parkinson's disease display impairments in making profitable decisions, as evidenced by poorer performance on the Iowa Gambling Task relative to matched controls. The ability to make beneficial judgments solely correlates with ability to appropriately attribute internal mental-state to other people, as shown in a mind-reading task. However, decision-making ability for individuals with Parkinson's disease is not associated with effective execution, intellectual function or depressed mood. These findings offer a new perspective on the cognitive impairments that affect social living and adaptive decisions for individuals with Parkinson's disease.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neuro-degenerative disease that is common in middle-aged and elderly people, and its incidence is increasing year by year. Studies have shown that pathological products produced by a series of pathological cascade reactions in the enteric nervous system (ENS) of PD patients travel to the brain through the vagus nerve pathway in the microbial-gut-brain axis, and ultimately lead to the occurrence and development of PD. Acupuncture plays an important role in interfering with pathological products of ENS, restoring ecological balance of intestine and delaying PD process. In this paper, the effects of acupuncture on intestinal flora, production of related microbial products, α-synuclein, neuroinflammatory response and oxidative stress in patients or animal model with PD were reviewed.

The increasing number of technological interventions related to Parkinson's disease (PD) signifies growing research interest in the PD technological domain. It remains unknown how these interventions could affect the psychosocial health of people with PD. This systematic review aims to explore how technological interventions affect people with PD psychosocial well-being and their perception towards these interventions. A systematic review was conducted using Cochrane Library®, Embase®, IEEE Xplore Digital Library®, PsycInfo®, PubMed® and Web of Science® databases following PRISMA guidelines. Two individual assessors conducted quality appraisals using the Mixed Method Appraisal Tool. Both quantitative narrative and qualitative thematic synthesis were adopted to analyse the extracted data. This review included 27 articles with 752 people with PD, with seven categories of technologies implemented in physical rehabilitation. Qualitative findings indicated the overarching theme of coping with technological intervention. Three themes were identified: user perception of intervention design and functional appropriateness, attitude shift and coping, and perceived benefits from technological interventions. Unsuccessful coping attempts and overcomplicated intervention designs induced negative emotions and affected the psychosocial well-being of people with PD. Although most PD technological interventions focused on physical rehabilitation, people with PD reported a psychosocial gain in improved autonomy and reinforced social relationships during the intervention period. A better rewardability intervention design was considered more satisfying and could promote self-acceptance rather than stress-inducing. Interventions' technological complexity should match participants' expectations and technological literacy to facilitate the coping process with the intervention for people with PD. More research would be required to quantify the reported psychosocial gain and examine the technological literacy of people with PD when designing a more appropriate intervention regime.
The goals of this study were to hear from patients with Parkinson's disease about their perioperative experiences and to describe those experiences using the patients' own words, particularly with regard to antiparkinson medication withholding and symptom exacerbation. We conducted a descriptive, qualitative study of patients' perioperative experiences with Parkinson's disease symptom management, performing 14 semistructured interviews with 13 participants who had Parkinson's disease and had undergone any type of surgery excepting Parkinson's disease surgeries. Patients' responses indicated concerns that hospital routines aren't flexible enough for their complex medication regimens; that hospital staff may not recognize a patient's own expertise in Parkinson's disease; and that hospital staff need more education about Parkinson's disease, especially regarding the interactions between the disease and surgery or anesthesia (or both). Participants' comments made it clear that the actions of nurses could affect the perioperative experience for better or for worse. Our findings further highlight the need for clinical care guidelines for hospitalized patients with Parkinson's disease. Nurses should take the lead in the development of guidelines for Parkinson's disease symptom management.
Although handwriting impairment is a frequent sign of Parkinson's disease (PD), its significance in the evaluation processes of these patients may be overlooked among physicians. Therefore, we would like to report an illustrative patient who presented with isolated micrographia initially; but received the diagnosis of PD in the follow-up.
Since the introduction of levodopa therapy, there have been major advances in the understanding and treatment of Parkinson's disease. However, the problems and limitations associated with this form of treatment are now becoming increasingly apparent. This article reviews some of the current knowledge concerning the etiology and pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease and discusses some practical approaches to drug therapy.
The progression of Parkinson's disease is associated with complications, most of them preventable. To analyze hospitalizations with a diagnosis of Parkinson's disease in Chile, comparing the different health subsystems. Analysis of hospital discharge database available at the website of the Chilean Ministry of Health. Discharges that incorporated the diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (ICD 10 code G20), between the years 2001 and 2018 were analyzed. The rate of discharges with the diagnosis of Parkinson's disease was 34.5 per 100,000 hospitalizations. The figures were 55.2 and 29.8 discharges per 100,000 in 2001 and 2018, respectively. Sixty seven percent of hospital admissions for Parkinson's occurred in the public sector and corresponded to beneficiaries of the public health insurance system (FONASA). Beneficiaries of private insurance systems accounted for 12% of hospital admissions. The mean hospital stay was 13.4 days. There is a decrease over time in the rate of hospitalizations with Parkinson's disease. This trend may be related with the incorporation of this disease in a special governmental program that guarantees a timely access to diagnosis and treatment.
Accurate assessment of symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD) is essential for optimal treatment decisions. During the past few years, different monitoring modalities have started to be used in the everyday clinical practice, mainly for the evaluation of motor symptoms. However, monitoring technologies for PD have not yet gained wide acceptance among physicians, patients, and caregivers. The COVID-19 pandemic disrupted the patients' access to healthcare, bringing to the forefront the need for wearable sensors, which provide effective remote symptoms' evaluation and follow-up. We report two cases with PD, whose symptoms were monitored with a new wearable CE-marked system (PDMonitor<sup>®</sup>), enabling appropriate treatment modifications. Objective assessment of the patient's motor symptoms in his daily home environment is essential for an accurate monitoring in PD and enhances treatment decisions.
Many people with Parkinson's disease (PD) and their family members ask their physicians "What is happening in research on Parkinson's disease? Is there anything new?" As the initial speaker at the symposium organized by the Parkinson's Disease Foundation in celebration of its 50th anniversary, I sought to address these questions, focusing on research published between the years 1997 and 2007. I cataloged the advances I considered most important in the field, recognizing my viewpoint is a subjective one and most likely differs from similar listings that others would put together. Space limitation allows me to discuss only a tiny fraction of the remarkable new findings that have been discovered during this 10-year span. Nevertheless, I expect the readers of this summation of advances in the field to be as impressed as I am on the wealth, breadth, and excitement stirring in the field of PD research. Included in this overview are highlights in both laboratory science and clinical science of PD research. In the former category are advances in knowledge on the genetics of PD; potential etiologic and pathogenic causes, especially the better understanding of endogenous factors within dopaminergic neurons; pathologic changes including deposition of alpha-synuclein aggregates; and the consequences of altered alpha-synuclein on the degradation of proteins by both the ubiquitin-proteasomal pathway and the lysosome. Clinical science has also been very active and impressively productive with important clinical advances. In this category are new information on the epidemiology of PD, including awareness of additional factors (besides smoking) that might slow the onset and worsening of PD, such as caffeine and urate; neuroimaging with positron emission tomography and single photon emission tomography; keener awareness of nonmotor features of PD and their impact on quality of life for the persons with PD and their family; recognition of behavioral complications of medications utilized to treat PD, such as impulse control problems; appreciation of the natural history of PD with the increasing impairments as the disease relentlessly worsens over time; the many controlled clinical trials attempting to slow the progression of the disease and to provide new symptomatic therapies; and surgical approaches to alleviate symptoms and progression, including cellular and gene therapy as well as deep brain stimulation.
Parkinson's is a neurodegenerative disorder that mostly affects people over the age of 65; however, a significant number (10%) of the diagnosed cases are under the age of 50 (Young Onset Parkinson's disease). It has multiple symptoms; it is difficult to diagnose and its progression cannot be intercepted. This article focuses on the experience of the diagnostic process as narrated by individuals who were under the age of 50 when diagnosed. Analysis of in-depth interviews with 17 individuals with Parkinson's disease inductively reveals a 'detecting stage', a period during which they visit different doctors, undertake many examinations and experience bodily symptoms with impacts on their mental health. The diagnostic process, which usually lasts over 2 years, often leads to misdiagnosis and or late diagnosis (a) on account of the individual's young age and social meanings attached to it, usually by doctors, whose discourse appears to be rather psychologised and (b) is perceived as disruptive to individuals' biographies. Due to the tendency to over-attribute bodily symptoms to psychological problems, accurate diagnosis is experienced as redemption.

Based on the long-term clinical practice and scientific researches on the three methods for the stage-treatment of Parkinson's disease put forward by the author in the early years, this essay further discusses the division of the three stages of Parkinson's disease. Early stage: Appearance of the early symptoms and signs of Parkinson's disease, but short in duration and mild in severity, which do not affect the social communications, daily life and work of the patient; and their modified Hoehn & Yahr grading is 1.0-1.5. Mid stage: With the symptoms and signs of Parkinson's disease getting worse and affecting the social communications, daily life and work of the patient, those who have their modified Hoehn & Yahr grading 2-3 need medical treatment. Late stage: The patients have severe clinical symptoms of Parkinson's disease, and Levodopa preparation is insufficient for them to maintain their daily life; and their modified Hoehn & Yahr grading is 4-5. The three treating methods are: TCM medical treatment adopted at the early stage; the combined treatment of Chinese and western medicine at the mid stage; and comprehensive treatment with multi-therapies at the late stage.
A targeted questionnaire may help increase rates of reporting Parkinson's disease psychosis (PDP) symptoms. Despite the need for a rapid patient- and/or caregiver-administered screening tool for PDP symptoms, an appropriate tool is not yet available. This study developed a targeted PDP questionnaire and examined rates of reporting psychosis symptoms in response to the questionnaire compared to rates of reporting symptoms to healthcare providers during a routine visit. This was a single-center, cross-sectional observational study of patients at an outpatient neurology practice. Medical charts were screened for eligibility, and patients were contacted by telephone for informed consent. A total of 25 patients (24%, <i>N</i> = 104) newly reported PDP symptoms in response to the targeted questionnaire. The frequency of reporting new symptoms in response to the questionnaire was statistically significantly greater compared to frequency of reporting symptoms without use of a targeted questionnaire (<i>p</i> < 0.0001). A targeted questionnaire increases rates of reporting PDP symptoms, and based on frequency, severity, and distress ratings, may allow for capture of PDP symptoms earlier in the course of the disease. By using a questionnaire, patients reported symptom onset an average of 1.4 years earlier than patients who reported symptoms to their providers according to patient medical records.
Psychosis in Parkinson's disease (PD) is a major source of distress to patients and caregivers. Although the advent of atypical antipsychotic agents has, to some extent, resolved a clinical dilemma by preserving motor function while treating psychosis, our understanding of psychosis in PD remains in a nascent state. In this article the authors address several issues relating to psychosis in PD including the following: 1) prevalence, 2) possible etiologies and risk factors and 3) treatment. They also identify limitations in our understanding of this complex phenomenon and conclude that, despite availability of reasonable treatments for psychosis in PD, the search for a better understanding of the phenomenon must continue.
Better understanding and prediction of progression of Parkinson's disease could improve disease management and clinical trial design. We aimed to use longitudinal clinical, molecular, and genetic data to develop predictive models, compare potential biomarkers, and identify novel predictors for motor progression in Parkinson's disease. We also sought to assess the use of these models in the design of treatment trials in Parkinson's disease. A Bayesian multivariate predictive inference platform was applied to data from the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI) study (NCT01141023). We used genetic data and baseline molecular and clinical variables from patients with Parkinson's disease and healthy controls to construct an ensemble of models to predict the annual rate of change in combined scores from the Movement Disorder Society-Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS) parts II and III. We tested our overall explanatory power, as assessed by the coefficient of determination (R<sup>2</sup>), and replicated novel findings in an independent clinical cohort from the Longitudinal and Biomarker Study in Parkinson's disease (LABS-PD; NCT00605163). The potential utility of these models for clinical trial design was quantified by comparing simulated randomised placebo-controlled trials within the out-of-sample LABS-PD cohort. 117 healthy controls and 312 patients with Parkinson's disease from the PPMI study were available for analysis, and 317 patients with Parkinson's disease from LABS-PD were available for validation. Our model ensemble showed strong performance within the PPMI cohort (five-fold cross-validated R<sup>2</sup> 41%, 95% CI 35-47) and significant-albeit reduced-performance in the LABS-PD cohort (R<sup>2</sup> 9%, 95% CI 4-16). Individual predictive features identified from PPMI data were confirmed in the LABS-PD cohort. These included significant replication of higher baseline MDS-UPDRS motor score, male sex, and increased age, as well as a novel Parkinson's disease-specific epistatic interaction, all indicative of faster motor progression. Genetic variation was the most useful predictive marker of motor progression (2·9%, 95% CI 1·5-4·3). CSF biomarkers at baseline showed a more modest (0·3%, 95% CI 0·1-0·5) but still significant effect on prediction of motor progression. The simulations (n=5000) showed that incorporating the predicted rates of motor progression (as assessed by the annual change in MDS-UPDRS score) into the final models of treatment effect reduced the variability in the study outcome, allowing significant differences to be detected at sample sizes up to 20% smaller than in naive trials. Our model ensemble confirmed established and identified novel predictors of Parkinson's disease motor progression. Improvement of existing prognostic models through machine-learning approaches should benefit trial design and evaluation, as well as clinical disease monitoring and treatment. Michael J Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research and National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke.



Parkinson's disease (PD) is the only neurodegenerative disorder in which pharmacological intervention has resulted in a marked decrease in morbidity and a significant delay in mortality. However, the medium to long-term efficacy of this pharmacotherapy, mainly consisting of dopaminomimetics like L -dopa and dopamine receptor agonists, suffers greatly from the unrelenting progression of the disease process underlying PD, i.e., the degeneration of neuromelanin-containing, dopaminergic neurones in the substantia nigra. Efforts concentrated on understanding the mechanisms of dopaminergic cell death in Parkinson's disease have led to identification of a large variety of pathogenetic factors, including excessive release of oxygen free radicals during enzymatic dopamine breakdown, impairment of mitochondrial function, production of inflammatory mediators, loss of trophic support, and apoptosis. Therapeutic approaches aimed at correcting these abnormalities are currently being evaluated on their efficacy as neuroprotectants for PD. Here, we focus on the process of dopamine auto-oxidation, the chain of reactions leading to the formation of neuromelanin, as an often overlooked, yet obvious pathogenetic factor. In particular, we discuss the option of drug-mediated stimulation of endogenous mechanisms responsible for the detoxification of dopamine auto-oxidation products as a novel means of neuroprotection in Parkinson's disease.
The neurodegenerative death of dopaminergic neurons of the pars compacta of the substantia nigra leads to the classical triad of resting tremor, muscle rigidity, and bradykinesia of Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease is a common disease of elderly patients requiring perioperative anaesthesia. Particular anaesthetic problems are neurological, respiratory, and cardiovascular. The clinical features and the interaction of common anaesthetics with the drug therapy of the patient present an anaesthetic challenge and directly influence perioperative morbidity and mortality.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease commonly seen in middle-aged and elderly people. Acupuncture can effectively reduce the symptoms of PD and improve the life quality of patients. In this paper, we reviewed the relevant literature on acupuncture modulation of PD inflammation in recent years from the perspective of neuroinflammation. The results showed that the mechanism of acupuncture for inflammatory responses in treatment of PD is closely related to inhibiting the glial cell activation, regulating the peripheral immune cells, suppressing the release of inflammatory factors, inducing anti-inflammatory factor expression, modulating the expression of inflammatory signaling pathways, and attenuating the intestinal inflammation. It may be effective for alleviating neuroinflammation, reducing neuronal damage, and delaying the progression of PD. This paper provides the evidences and ideas for the deepening research of the mechanism of PD treated with acupuncture and moxibustion in the future.
Several structures including subthalamic nucleus (STN), the caudal zona incerta (cZI), the prelemniscal radiation (Raprl), and the thalamic ventral intermediate nucleus (Vim) have been reported to be useful for improving symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the effect of each target is still unclear. Therefore, we investigated each structure's effects and adverse effects using a directional lead implanted in the posterior STN adjacent to the cZI and Raprl in two patients with tremor-dominant PD. In Case 1, maximal reduction of tremor was obtained by stimulation toward the Vim, and stimulation toward the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) reduced verbal fluency, but did not induce dysarthria. In Case 2, maximal reduction of tremor was obtained by stimulation toward the dorsal STN and Raprl. Maximal reduction of rigidity was achieved by stimulation toward the dorsal STN, Raprl, and cZI. Bradykiensia was improved by stimulation in all directions, but dyskinesia and dysarthria were evoked by stimulation toward the dorsal STN and cZI. The directional lead may elucidate the stimulation effect of each structure and broaden target selection depending on patients' symptoms and adverse effects.
Parkinson's disease provides a useful model for studying the neural substrates of emotional processing. The striato-thalamo-cortical circuits, like the mesolimbic dopamine system that modulates their function, are thought to be involved in emotional processing. As Parkinson's disease is histopathologically characterized by the selective, progressive and chronic degeneration of the nigrostriatal and mesocorticolimbic dopamine systems, it can therefore serve as a model for assessing the functional role of these circuits in humans. In the present review, after a definition of emotional processing from a multicomponential perspective, a synopsis of the emotional disturbances observed in Parkinson's disease is proposed. Note that the studies on the affective consequences of subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation in Parkinson's disease were excluded from this review because the subject of a companion paper in this issue. This review leads to the conclusion that several emotional components would be disrupted in Parkinson's disease: subjective feeling, neurophysiological activation, and motor expression. We then discuss the functional roles of the striato-thalamo-cortical and mesolimbic circuits, ending with the conclusion that both these pathways are indeed involved in emotional processing.
Mean-age of onset of Parkinson's disease is 56 years. The older the patient is the more rapid is on average the progression of disability. In the early phase the motor symptoms respond well to therapy. Later, variations of response to therapy and side-effects of therapy occur (wearing-off, end-of-dose akinesia, end-of-dose dystonia, dopaminergic abnormal involuntary movements, pharmacogenic psychoses etc.). Due to the modern pharmacologic treatment of Parkinson's disease with dopaminergic substances disabling stages of the disease occur mean 3 to 5 years later than before levodopa-substitution was initiated. The incidence of depression, distinct cognitive deficits (impairment of memory, visuospatial deficits) and dementia increases in the course of the disease. The tremulous form of Parkinson's disease generally leads to less motor impairment than the rigid-akinetic form. Parkinson's disease of early onset (onset before the age of 40), may be regarded as a subtype of Parkinson's disease. Benign and malignant types of Parkinson's disease may be distinguished, as well as overlaps with multisystem atrophies.

What difficulties do patients face in being considered as players in their own treatment pathway? What obstacles do they have to overcome to participate in making decisions concerning them? How do they live the patient-caregiver relationship, sometimes felt to be unequal? Here are a few stories from patients with Parkinson's disease.




Regional changes in brain metabolism upgraded with measurements of specific metabolic brain patterns and automated diagnostic algorithms can help to differentiate among neurodegenerative parkinsonisms, but with few reports on pathological confirmation. Here we describe a parkinsonian patient with atypical presentation and <sup>18</sup>F-FDG-PET imaging consistent with idiopathic Parkinson's disease. The latter was confirmed at the pathohistological examination.
NICE guidance recommends that suspected Parkinson's patients are referred to a specialist for diagnosis. More GPs should be encouraged to refer rather than treat patients so they will be treated quickly, and their medicines managed by an expert. Nurse specialists can also be used to run clinics, freeing up consultants to see more new patients.
Treatment of patients with Parkinson's disease in specialized units is quite common in Germany. Data on the benefit of this hospitalization of patients with Parkinson's disease on motor and non-motor symptoms in conjunction with standardized tests are rare. Objective was to determine the efficacy of this therapeutic setting. We scored disease severity and performed clinical tests, respectively, instrumental procedures under standardized conditions in consecutively referred in-patients initially and at the end of their hospital stay. There was a decrease of motor and non-motor symptoms. The extent of improvement of non-motor and motor symptoms correlated to each other. Performance of complex movement sequences became better, whereas execution of simple movement series did not ameliorate. The interval for the timed up and go test went down. We demonstrate the effectiveness of an in-patient stay in a specialized unit for Parkinson's disease. Objective standardized testing supplements subjective clinical scoring with established rating scales.
Animal research provides evidence that sleep deprivation influences the dopamine system. Knowledge about the effect of sleep deprivation on motor performance in patients with Parkinsons disease is scarce. This study examines the influence of total and partial sleep deprivation compared to normal sleep on motor state and performance in Parkinson's disease. Fifteen nondepressed patients with Parkinson's disease underwent one night of total sleep deprivation (TSD), one night of partial sleep deprivation (PSD) after 3 a.m., and one control night of normal sleep (S), performed in a random, nonconsecutive order. Over a period of 3 hours the following morning, motor evaluations (United Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale, [UPDRS] and tapping rate) were performed before and every 30 minutes after intake of the usual morning dopaminergic drug dose. All patients underwent polysomnography apart from the sleep deprivation protocol. Mean UPDRS motor scores and tapping velocities did not differ significantly after each of the schedules, but a subgroup of four patients improved their motor score after partial sleep deprivation. These data do not confirm previous findings of an overall positive influence of sleep deprivation on motor function in Parkinson's disease. However, the results indicate that different response types to sleep deprivation may exist and that a subgroup of patients could benefit from partial sleep deprivation.


In order to raise awareness of the public health importance of Parkinson's disease, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has recently established a Working Group on Parkinson's Disease and included it in the framework of the WHO Global Initiative on Neurology and Public Health. The first meeting of this international expert group produced a set of recommendations covering the following aspects of Parkinson's disease: epidemiology; organisation of services and treatment; education, training and information, and direct and indirect costs of care. An independent international research project entitled Global Parkinson's Disease Survey has recently been launched in response to the recommendations of the WHO Working Group on Parkinson's Disease. This paper summarises the recommendations of this WHO Working Group and outlines objectives, methods and preliminary pilot results of the Global Parkinson's Disease Survey.


In vivo gene therapy for neurodegenerative disorders has turned out to be a formidable challenge. It is a field not much older than twenty years, but we were many who would have predicted a much easier path towards the clinic using this treatment modality. For Parkinson's disease patients, this has meant a frustrating wait, seeing many promising therapies being forgotten after a few pre-clinical proof-of-concept studies. The reasons for this are both scientific and economical. However, this is slowly but surely changing and over the next two decades we will see a very exciting development in this field. In a foreseeable future, gene therapy will be a very natural component of many clinical therapies, not least in Parkinson's disease.
<i>Background/Objectives</i>: A family history of Parkinson's disease (PD) is an important risk factor for developing PD. Because only a few studies have investigated the clinical characteristics of PD patients based on family history, this study compared the clinical characteristics of PD patients with and without a family history of PD. <i>Methods</i>: The study involved 356 patients with de novo PD. The data on the patients' PD family histories were obtained from the patients and their caregivers. Motor and non-motor PD symptoms were assessed using the appropriate scales. <i>Results</i>: Out of the 356 PD patients, 26 (7.3%) had a family history of PD. Compared with patients without a family history of PD, those with a family history of PD tended to be younger at diagnosis (67.9 years vs. 62.2 years, respectively; <i>p</i> = 0.009) and exhibited significantly more severe rigidity (<i>p</i> = 0.036). Motor subtype was not different between the PD patients with and without a family history. PD patients with a family history experienced significantly fewer falls/cardiovascular symptoms within the Non-Motor Symptoms Scale domains (<i>p</i> = 0.001) compared to their counterparts, although this was not statistically significant upon adjusting for age (<i>p</i> = 0.119). <i>Conclusions</i>: In de novo PD patients, having a family history of PD is associated with a younger age at diagnosis and more severe rigidity.


An epidemiological study of Parkinsonism was carried out in Benghazi situated in North-Eastern Libya. On the prevalence day, January 1, 1985, a total of 163 patients with Parkinson's disease were found living in the investigated area, which had a population of 518,745. The crude prevalence rate was 31.4 per 100,000 population and the incidence rate was 4.5 per 100,000 population per year. The average age at death was 71.2 years and the mean duration of the illness was 6.7 years. Our findings suggest that the risk of Parkinson's disease observed in the present study is intermediate to that reported among the white and black races and comparable with the yellow race and the Sardinians.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a slowly progressing neurologic movement disorder affecting nearly 1% of the population over age 65. PD is the fourth most common neurodegenerative disease of patients. Incidence is greater in men with a ratio of 3:2--men to women. Because PD is so complex, diagnosis and treatment are often very challenging. While the cause of PD is unknown, research has concentrated on genetics, exogenous toxins, and endogenous toxins from cellular oxidative reactions. The presenting symptoms of a patient with PD include muscle rigidity, tremors, bradykinesia, and postural instability. Treatment for PD has been primarily pharmacologic: levodopa, carbidopa, anticholinergics, and selegiline (a monoamine oxidase inhibitor to reestablish an equilibrium between dopamine and acetylcholine). surgical procedures (e.g., pallidotomy, thalamotomy, and tissue implants) are a possible choice of treatment for patients who have failed to respond satisfactorily to drugs.


Ten patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease and motor fluctuations were rated for mood changes during discrete "off," "on," and "on with dyskinesia" periods. The Profile of Mood States and visual analogue scales were used. Significant changes in mood and anxiety were found to parallel changes in motor fluctuations. One patient rated his moods as consistently improving from the "off" state to the "on" state and finally to the "on with dyskinesia" state, a finding that is consistent with concomitant central dopaminergic changes. All other patients showed moods that improved significantly from the "off" state to the "on" state but then worsened significantly in the "on with dyskinesia" state, a finding that is consistent with the fact that patients feel worse when impaired by dyskinesias. It is suggested that these results argue for multiple etiologies of depression in Parkinson's disease. The literature on dopamine and depression in Parkinson's disease is briefly reviewed and the opportunity provided by "on-off" phenomena to study the effect of dopamine on mood changes is discussed.
This is a case of young man who has severe generalized dystonic spells with moaning with severe parkinsonism, which improves with dopaminergic medications. Patient was found to be DNAJC6 related juvenile Parkinson's disease. This case adds to the phenotypic variability of the DNAJC6 juvenile Parkinson's disease as severe dystonic spells and moaning has not been reported previously. Early diagnosis and symptomatic treatment with dopaminergic medications helps significantly to improve the quality of life.
This article identifies issues that are important for people with Parkinson's disease (PD). A review of the literature showed that information about PD commonly relates to anatomy and physiology, medication and activities of daily living. These categories were used to formulate statements on a questionnaire, which was distributed to members of the Parkinson's Disease Society within the East Midlands. The results demonstrated that those with PD wanted advice on maintaining their independence, the amount of movement they were capable of and how to respond if their symptoms changed. They wanted to know when to seek medical advice, information about their medication and the treatments available for PD. Knowing what could be tried next if the present treatment failed was thought more important than knowing about all treatments.
It has been reported that patients who have Parkinson's disease have a high prevalence of somatisation (functional neurological symptoms) compared with patients who have other neurodegenerative conditions. Numerous explanations have been advanced for this phenomenon. Here, with illustrative cases, we discuss this topic, including its clinical importance, and suggest a link between the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease and the proposed propensity to develop functional symptoms.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common condition in nursing home (NH) residents. The primary treatment for Parkinson's disease is levodopa therapy to relieve motor symptoms and maximize physical function. Non-motor symptoms are highly prevalent in NH residents with Parkinson's disease and dramatically decrease quality of life. Choices in drug treatment need to take into account the complex interactions between aging, comorbidity and non-motor symptoms. Optimal management requires expertise and cooperative effort from prescribing neurologists and nursing home health professionals. The objective is to evaluate the pertinence of the CHEF, a new tool to screen daily life clinical data helpful for the management of neurologist consultants. NH nurses were asked to briefly report falls and gait problems, hallucinations, sleep disorders and motor fluctuations. Analysis of the results obtained in 26 patients showed that CHEF was perceived as a helpful complement to existing ressources. The use of this tool has the potential to enhance the quality of NH care of Parkinsonian patients.
Young onset Parkinson's disease patients, typically aged 21 to between 40 and 55, have symptomatology similar to regular onset patients. Despite this, we suspect that physicians take longer to diagnose young onset patients since Parkinson's disease is ruled out due to the younger age. The history prior to diagnosis of 14 young onset patients (within 21 to 45 years of age) was compared with an equivalent number of regular onset patients matched by gender, tremor presence, and Hoehn and Yahr stage. Indeed, a longer period of time was taken to diagnose younger patients with an average of additional 15 months (p<0.001). This trend of older patients being diagnosed sooner was present in the regular onset group analyzed in isolation, but not so for the younger group. The lack of age-dependent variation in time required for diagnosis suggests that Parkinson's disease is not considered at all in the diagnosis for an extended period, accounting for the large difference in prevalence of young onset group to the regular onset group. We also observed a significantly higher number of neurologist visits (p=0.002) and clinical investigations (p<0.001) prior to diagnosis of young-onset patients. Due to the impact of delayed diagnoses on young onset patients and clinical resources, we propose that Parkinson's disease be more actively considered in differential diagnoses of younger patients presenting associated symptoms.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders. The condition causes a heavy burden both on those affected, as well as their families. Accurate diagnosis is critical and remains founded on clinical grounds as no specific diagnostic test is available so far. The clinical picture of PD is typical in many instances; however, features distinguishing it from other disorders should be thoroughly sought. Monogenic forms of PD also have some distinctive characteristics in many cases. This text is a roadmap to accurate diagnosis in PD, as it approaches clinical features, diagnostic methodology, and leading differential diagnoses. Therapeutic issues are also briefly discussed.
Parkinson's disease is a complex disorder in which the genetic aspects are only just being realized. The underlying cause for the degeneration of dopaminergic substantia nigra neurons and the formation of Lewy bodies in Parkinson's disease is unknown. The identification of clear inherited forms of the disease has provided important clues as to how this complex process may be occurring. Mutations have now been identified in the alpha-synuclein (4q21.3-23), parkin (6q25.2-27), and ubiquitin carboxy terminal hydrolase-L1 (4p16.3) genes in families with Parkinson's disease. Four additional chromosomal locations; 2p13, 4p14-15, 1p35-36, and 12p11.2-q13.1 have been linked to Parkinson's disease families but no pathologic gene mutations have been identified to date. As additional Parkinson's disease loci are mapped and their genes identified we will continue to add to our understating of the critical biochemical pathways involved and be able to develop effective disease altering treatments.
Parkinson's disease, a chronic progressive disorder of the central nervous system characterized by tremor, rigidity and bradykinesia, usually affects those over the age of 50. Recent developments in research on Parkinson's disease include investigation of the possible role of diet and a growing interest in genetics and inherited factors. The identification of biological markers and other environmental risk factors will play a significant role in future research of the disease as they will be important in the development of prevention strategies.
Recent reports have linked impairment of various aspects of the sense of self to frontal brain dysfunction. Independent evidence suggests that patients with Parkinson's disease exhibit impairment on cognitive tasks that depend on the frontal lobes. To test the hypothesis (1) that the sense of self would be impaired in some persons with Parkinson's disease and (2) that this impairment would be linked to frontal dysfunction. Sentence completion tests of identity development ("self-test") and measures of frontal and temporal lobe functioning were administered to 20 people with Parkinson's disease and to 10 age-matched healthy controls. While self-test responses significantly correlated with performance scores on tests of executive function (for Parkinson's disease patients only) but not temporal lobe function (as measured by "clustering" rates on a fluency task), we found no significant differences in mean self-test scores between persons with Parkinson's disease and age-matched controls. Analysis of the 160 self-test responses revealed a shift toward conformist responses in Hoehn-Yahr stage III as compared with stage II Parkinson's disease patients. While the sense of self changes as a function of disease stage, the core experience of self in Parkinson's disease is intact but may depend, in part, on frontal lobe function.
Relaxation training can be an important adjunct in reducing symptoms associated with Parkinson's disease (PD). Autogenic Training (AT) is a simple, easily administered and inexpensive technique for retraining the mind and the body to be able to relax. AT uses visual imagery and body awareness to promote a state of deep relaxation. To investigate whether AT when used as an adjunct to Physiotherapy (PT) improves motor performances in PD in comparison with a control group receiving PT alone. Randomized, controlled, single blinded trial. Movement Disorder Clinic and Department of Physiotherapy, Sree Chithira Thirunal Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology in Trivandrum, Kerala, India. Patients with PD of grade 2 or 3 of Hoehn & Yahr (H&Y) scale (N = 66). AT group or control group. The techniques were administered by Physiotherapists trained in AT and consisted of 40 sessions per patient over 8 weeks. Motor score subscale of Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) was used to measure the motor performances. The primary outcome measure was the difference in Motor score subscale of UPDRS scores between Week 1 (pretest score), Week 8 (posttest score), and follow-up at Week 12 after randomization. The simple main effects analysis showed that the AT group performed better than the control group in weeks 8 and 12 (P < .005). Patients in the AT and control groups reported a 51.78% and 35.24% improvement, respectively, in their motor performances in Week 8 compared with that in Week 1, which persisted, in the follow-up (Week 12) as 30.82% in the AT group and 21.42% in the control group. This study provides evidence that AT when used as an adjunct to PT is more effective than PT alone in improving motor performances in PD patients.
A pair of monozygotic twins concordant for Parkinson's disease are described. The issue of genetic factors in Parkinson's disease is discussed.
PARKINSON'S DISEASE NEUROPSYCHOPATHOLOGY (1/2).: A progressive, neurodegenerative disease of unknown aetiology, Parkinson's disease is characterised mainly by motor disorders. As the disease progresses, other disorders appear: speech, swallowing, perspiration, genitourinary, etc., as well as cognitive and psychological conditions. The consequences are significant, both on a social level and in terms of autonomy. The treatment is specialised and multi-professional.
A one year follow up study of 108 randomised patients with Parkinson's disease at three centres was performed to investigate differences between care provided by the hospital based Parkinson's disease nurse specialist (PDNS) compared with the Consultant Neurologist (control). Only two (out of 22) differences were found where physical functioning and general health improved more in the control group. Provision of PDNS' for patients with Parkinson's disease cannot therefore be recommended solely on cost-effectiveness grounds because of similar outcomes but increased costs associated with the PDNS providing additional care. However medical and nursing specialists valued their complimentary expertise, and patient and carers responses to consultations also reflect that PDNS's have particular contributions. Aspects of care most valued by patients and carers and consultation interactions are discussed.
The advent of possible protective therapies for Parkinson's disease has created a need for methods of diagnosing the disease before the clinical features become fully evident. As a number of motor and nonmotor manifestations of the disease emerge months to years before a diagnosis can be made, a battery of clinical tests might be sufficient to identify individuals at an earlier stage than is currently possible using the standard history and physical examination. A list of questions regarding possible risk factors, specific symptoms, and observations of family members could be combined in a self-administered questionnaire that might identify individuals with a high probability of early, but otherwise undiagnosable, Parkinson's disease. Identification of subtle motor features is another possible screening method. For example, handwriting and speech are commonly affected prior to diagnosis; thus, automated analysis of these motor actions might also provide detection of incipient disease.


Parkinson's disease is the most common neurodegenerative movement disorder and the fastest-growing neurological disease in the world. The diagnostic spectrum, demographic characteristics, comorbidities and case number developments of inpatient treatment in Germany with resulting implications for patient care have so far been insufficiently investigated. Data from the diagnosis-related groups (DRG) statistics were analyzed in patients with a main and secondary diagnosis of primary Parkinson's syndrome (PS), secondary PS or other degenerative disease of the basal ganglia. For the reporting years 2010-2015, the dataset comprised 1,520,366 patient cases from 413 districts/independent cities throughout Germany. In 2015, mostly patients with moderate and severe primary PS were hospitalized (64.7%) often exhibiting motor fluctuations as well as marked medical and psychiatric comorbidities. Vascular parkinsonism was the most frequent secondary PS (36.6%) and progressive supranuclear palsy was the leading diagnosis in the other disorders of the basal ganglia (51.9%). Primary PS as a secondary diagnosis was found in many internal medicine hospitalizations. The inpatient case numbers for primary PS increased significantly from the years 2010 to 2015 and rural regions were particularly affected. The number of inpatient cases of Parkinson's disease is greatly increasing in Germany and mainly affects patients with severe motor complications and secondary parkinsonian syndromes. Particularly in rural areas, there is a risk of overburdening the treatment infrastructure, so that both outpatient and inpatient sectors must be strengthened. A limitation of the study is the analysis of only DRG coded data, whose quality could be improved in subsequent examinations by comparison with the current diagnostic criteria of the specialist societies.
Two hundred years ago James Parkinson accurately described the disease that bears his name today, focusing not only on motor aspects but also on non-motor symptoms suffered by these patients. Non-motor symptoms are prevalent and decrease the quality of life of the patients with Parkinson's disease. In recent years, some non-motor scales have been developed to avoid the problem of underdiagnosis. Moreover, some of them have been proposed as clinical predictors for Parkinson's disease and it is has been suggested that individuals with any of these non-motor symptoms and without motor manifestations of the disease could be the aim for neuroprotective therapies when they become available. Non-motor symptoms are prevalent and have a great impact in the quality of life of patients. Therefore, it is important to detect and treat them. Their role as predictors of the disease is unclear yet.

This article summarizes the current studies on the pathological mechanism of Parkinson's disease as well as the advance in studies traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) experiments in prevention and treatment of Parkinson's disease in the latest decade in terms of prevention and treatment of PD by TCM, inhibition of oxidative stress, improving mitochondrial energy metabolism, inhibition of neural immune and inflammatory responses, reduction of neural toxicity, inhibition of apoptosis and abnormal protein aggregation.
Parkinson's disease is the second most common disease of the central nervous system after Alzheimer's disease. Currently, no blood test or other laboratory tests are available to diagnose this condition. One of the practical methods in diagnosing and evaluating the progress of neurodegenerative diseases is the use of optical coherence tomography (OCT), with which it is possible to accurately measure the thickness of the layers of the retina, as well as the thickness and volume of the macula. The goal of this study was to determine the OCT findings in patients with Parkinson's disease compared to the normal population. This study was conducted in 2019 at the Neurology Clinic of Farshchian Hospital, Hamadan (Iran). Sampling was performed based on the inclusion/exclusion criteria of the study and the required sample size. Patients referred to the Neurology Department of Farshchian Hospital were first examined by a neurologist, then referred to the ophthalmology clinic for a complete ophthalmological examination. OCT imaging was performed by an experienced, skilled optometrist after pupillary dilation with tropicamide drops. RNFL thickness, macula and fovea, and the measured macular volumes were recorded along with other information, including age, sex, disease duration, severity of disease symptoms, and drug use. Finally, the data were analyzed using SPSS version 22 statistical software. A total of 103 individuals including 49 males (47.6%) and 54 females (52.4%) with a mean age of 70.66 years were examined. The subjects included two groups, patients (53 subjects) and control (50 subjects), who were matched in terms of age and gender distribution. The mean RNFL thickness and macular thickness and volume in the patient group were significantly lower than in the control group (P<0.05). There was an inverse relationship between the thickness of the RNFL and the macula with the duration of the disease and the severity of the disease symptoms (P<0.05). In this study, a significant decrease in RNFL thickness and macular thickness and volume was shown in patients with Parkinson's disease compared to the age- and sex-matched control group. It can be said that the changes in the macula and RNFL in Parkinson's disease and with progression of the disease are suitable markers for diagnosing and investigating the progression of Parkinson's disease.
Lewy bodies have historically been considered a histopathologic hallmark of idiopathic Parkinson's disease. Recently, it has become clear that Lewy bodies play a role in neurodegenerative processes other than idiopathic Parkinson's disease, including diffuse Lewy body disease and diffuse Lewy bodies with concomitant Alzheimer's disease changes. It is likely that these processes represent a spectrum of neurodegenerative change in which Lewy bodies play a pivotal role. Although much is known and has been written regarding the histopathology and pathophysiology of Lewy body diseases, specific criteria for their diagnosis remain problematic. Within the spectrum of Lewy body disease, overlap in clinical presentation and histopathologic findings has caused some to dismiss attempts at subcategorizing Lewy body disease as artificial. We present, in brief, current information and theories concerning the pathology and pathogenesis of Lewy body disease.
There is growing body of evidence that some patients with essential tremor (ET) have an increased risk for developing Parkinson's disease (PD) and, therefore, as noted in our paper, ET may be considered a prodromal feature of PD. Although a genetic causal link between ET and PD has not been established, future development of diagnostic and progression biomarkers may provide insight into the relationship between these common movement disorders.
In this essay I present a new "global approach hypothesis" to explain the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease: "Susceptibility to Parkinsonism is genetically determined and is reflected in all cells. I propose that idiopathic Parkinson's disease is the combined result of a generalized cell aging process accelerated, in susceptible individuals, by a variety of often repetitive trigger factors. These factors have in common the fact that they cause a transient increase in turnover within catecholamine producing neurons, centrally as well as peripherally. This results in accumulation within these neurons of free radicals. When the level of the toxic substances, in quantity or in time of exposure, exceeds the scavenging capacity of the cell, damage to organelles and to membranes results, leading to the formation of Lewy bodies through an autoimmune reaction to damaged filaments and to cell death, particularly in the pigmented neurons of the brainstem. The progressive cell depletion leads to a compensatory increase in catecholamine turnover in the remaining pigmented cells, and an ever-accelerating degenerative process. The resulting neurotransmitter imbalance in the basal ganglia explains the symptoms of Parkinson's disease". In the light of this hypothesis, our research objectives should be (1) to delineate the limits of true Parkinson's disease from all phenocopies; (2) to identify individuals susceptible to parkinsonism and the most common trigger factors; (3) to reduce the metabolic effects of unavoidable trigger factors and (4) to protect susceptible individuals by increasing the functional availability of free radical trapping agents.
Parkinson's disease is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder, after Alzheimer's disease. It predominantly affects the elderly. Age is the most clearly established risk factor and there is a male:female ratio of 1.5:1. Current incidence in the general population is 8.4-19 per 100,000 population per year with an approximate prevalence of 120 per 100,000 population. NICE recommends that patients with suspected Parkinson's disease should be referred untreated to a specialist with expertise in parkinsonian disorders. The diagnosis is primarily clinical. Parkinson's disease should be suspected in all patients presenting with bradykinesia (which is essential for the diagnosis of any form of parkinsonism, including Parkinson's disease), muscular rigidity, resting tremor (4-6 Hz) and postural instability not caused by a primary visual, vestibular, cerebellar, or proprioceptive dysfunction. At present, there are no specific biochemical, imaging or genetic tests to assist in the diagnosis of Parkinson's disease. Structural brain imaging (MRI or CT) has no role in the diagnosis of Parkinson's disease but may be useful to exclude cerebrovascular disease, hydrocephalus and Wilson's disease in selected cases. Parkinson's disease is a condition that results in both motor and non-motor symptoms. Morbidity associated with non-motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease is becoming increasingly recognised and some non-motor symptoms such as hyposmia, apathy, depression and REM sleep behaviour disorder may precede the onset of motor symptoms.

ATYPICAL PARKINSONIAN SYNDROMES Idiopathic Parkinson's disease is the most common cause of parkinsonism, but in almost 40 % of cases, parkinsonism is due to other causes. The diagnosis of atypical parkinsonian syndromes remains difficult at the early stage. Parkinson's syndrome is associated with other symptoms called «red flags». These red flags need to be identified during the clinical examination. Unlike Parkinson's disease, dopaminergic treatment are slightly effective on motor symptoms. The prognosis is worst, with a faster progression. The life expectation is reduced compared to Parkinson's disease. Diagnosis certainty, given by anatomopathology, is not available during the patient's lifetime. Advances in functional imaging improve diagnosis accuracy. Clinical course answers diagnosis uncertainties in a few month or years. The follow up is multidisciplinary. No treatment is currently available.
According to certain research, there might be a connection between Parkinson's disease and plasma lipidome. However, the causal effects between plasma lipidome and Parkinson's disease and whether immune cells act as a mediator remain unclear. According to some research, plasma lipids are an important risk factor for Parkinson's disease, however, whether there is a causative connection between the two is unclear. In this study, Mendelian randomization (MR) was utilized to investigate the causal effect of plasma lipidomics on Parkinson's disease while conducting mediation analysis to determine whether immune cells served as mediators in this association. Plasma lipidome, immune cells, and Parkinson's disease were identified from large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWAS) summary data. We explored the causal connections between the plasma lipidome, Parkinson's disease, and the immune system using Mendelian randomization (MR). Inverse variance weighting (IVW) was used as the main statistical method. Furthermore, we investigated the potential that immune cells play a mediating role in the pathway leading from the plasma lipidome to Parkinson's disease. There were two positive and four negative causal effects between genetic liability in the plasma lipidome and Parkinson's disease. In addition, there were four positive and three negative causal relationships between immune cells and Parkinson's disease. The immune cells function as a mediator. Immune cells functioned as mediating components in the pathway from plasma lipidome to Parkinson's disease, and both plasma lipidome and immune cells were causally related to Parkinson's disease. It is expected that immune cells and plasma lipid intervention can be used as a preventive and therapeutic strategy for Parkinson's disease.
Review the signs and symptoms of Parkinson's disease and available treatment options.


Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease leading to motor impairments and dystonia across diverse muscle groups including vocal muscles. The vocal production challenges associated with PD have received considerably less research attention than the primary gross motor symptoms of the disease despite having a substantial effect on quality of life. Increasingly, people living with PD are discovering group singing as an asset-based approach to community building that is purported to strengthen vocal muscles and improve vocal quality. The present study investigated the impact of community choir on vocal production in people living with PD across two sites. Prior to and immediately following a 12-week community choir at each site, vocal testing included a range of vocal-acoustic measures, including lowest and highest achievable pitch, duration of phonation, loudness, jitter, and shimmer. Results showed that group singing significantly improved some, though not all, measures of vocal production. Group singing improved lowest pitch (both groups), duration (both groups), intensity (one group), jitter (one group), and shimmer (both groups). These findings support community choir as a feasible and scalable complementary approach to managing vocal production challenges associated with PD.
Recent studies suggest that levodopa treatment reduces the excess mortality due to Parkinson's disease, found to be three times that expected in the general population. This will affect the equilibrium state of the epidemiology of Parkinson's disease. The predicted increase in prevalence of Parkinson's disease was calculated according to two mortality patterns, one the same as expected in the general population and the other 1.5 times that expected; the proportional increase in prevalence is 1.8 and 1.4, respectively. The predicted increase in the duration of the disease if 6.3 or 3.2 years. As a consequence, there will be an increase of patients with long-term levodopa treatment difficulties, and with Parkinson's disease symptoms not treatable with levodopa, e.g. dementia. This seriously warrants the research of new approaches in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Persistent tremor is a worrying symptom for patients but Parkinson's disease is not the most common cause. A careful history and clinical examination will usually provide the diagnosis.





Deep Brain Stimulation for Parkinson's disease is a promising treatment for patients who can no longer be treated satisfactorily with L-dopa. Deep Brain Stimulation is known to relieve motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease and improve quality of life. Focusing on how patients experience life when treated with Deep Brain Stimulation can provide essential information on the process patients go through when receiving a treatment that alters the body and changes the illness trajectory. The aim of this study was to explore and describe the experience of living with Parkinson's disease when treated with Deep Brain Stimulation. The study was designed as a longitudinal study and data were gathered through qualitative in-depth interviews three times during the first year of treatment. Nine patients participated in the study. They were included when they had accepted treatment with Deep Brain Stimulation for Parkinson's disease. Data collection and data analysis were inspired by the hermeneutic phenomenological methodology of Van Manen. The treatment had a major impact on the body. Participants experienced great bodily changes and went through a process of adjustment in three phases during the first year of treatment with Deep Brain Stimulation. These stages were; being liberated: a kind of miracle, changes as a challenge: decline or opportunity and reconciliation: re-defining life with Parkinson's disease. The course of the process was unique for each participant, but dominant was that difficulties during the adjustment of stimulation and medication did affect the re-defining process. Patients go through a dramatic process of change following Deep Brain Stimulation. A changing body affects their entire lifeworld. Some adjust smoothly to changes while others are affected by loss of control, uncertainty and loss of everyday life as they knew it. These experiences affect the process of adjusting to life with Deep Brain Stimulation and re-define life with Parkinson's disease. It is of significant importance that health care professionals are aware of these dramatic changes in the patients' life and offer support during the adjustment process following Deep Brain Stimulation.
Parkinson's disease is a complex and debilitating neurological condition that requires nursing care that is tailored to the individual. This article provides an overview of the condition, discusses the role of Parkinson's specialist nurses and gives advice on care.
Early-morning off periods, causing early-morning akinesia, can lead to significant motor and nonmotor morbidity in levodopa-treated fluctuating Parkinson's disease (PD) cases. Despite validated bedside scales in clinical practice, such early-morning off periods may remain undetected unless specific wearable technologies, such as the Parkinson's KinetiGraph™ (PKG) watch, are used. We report five PD cases for whom the PKG detected early-morning off periods that were initially clinically undetected and as such, untreated. These five cases serve as exemplars of this clinical gap in care. Post-PKG assessment, clinicians were alerted and targeted therapies helped abolish the early-morning off periods.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative multisystem disorder characterized by progressive motor symptoms such as bradykinesia, tremor and muscle rigidity. Over the course of the disease, numerous non-motor symptoms, sometimes preceding the onset of motor symptoms, significantly impair patients' quality of life. The significance of non-motor symptoms may outweigh the burden through progressive motor incapacity, especially in later stages of the disease. The advanced stage of the disease is characterized by motor complications such as fluctuations and dyskinesias induced by the long-term application of levodopa therapy. In recent years, it became evident that various non-motor symptoms such as psychiatric symptoms, fatigue and pain also show fluctuations after chronic levodopa therapy (named non-motor fluctuations or NMFs). Although NMFs have moved into the focus of interest, current national guidelines on the treatment of PD may refer to non-motor symptoms and their management, but do not mention NMF, and do not contain recommendations on their management. The present article summarizes major issues related to NMF including clinical phenomenology and pathophysiology, and outlines a number of open issues and topics for future research.

Parkinson's disease is a common neurodegenerative disorder and the diagnosis depends mostly on clinical assessment so it is important to be aware of less common symptoms of the disease for correct diagnosis and therapy. We describe a patient with intractable hiccups as a very unusual presentation of Parkinson's disease.
The paper introduces the diagnostic and therapeutic ideas and clinical experience of Professor <i>LIU Zhibin</i> in treatment with acupuncture for Parkinson's disease with mild cognitive impairment. Professor <i>LIU</i> believes that the basic pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease with mild cognitive impairment refers to the deficiency of liver and kidney, and the loss of mind control. Therefore, the treatment focuses on nourishing the liver and kidney, regulating the governor vessel, opening the brain orifice, and regulating the mind. The point prescription is composed of <i>Tongdu Tiaoshen zhen</i> (the points for promoting the circulating of the governor vessel and regulating the mind, i.e. four-mind needles [Extra], Shenting [GV24], bilateral Benshen [GB13] and Fengfu [GV16]), <i>xiusanzhen</i> (three-olfaction needles, including bilateral Yingxiang [LI20] and Yintang [GV24<sup>+</sup>]) and <i>zhichan bazhen</i> (eight anti-tremble needles, i.e. Baihui [GV20], Lianquan [CV23], and Hegu [LI4], Waiguan [TE5], Taichong [LR3], Zusanli [ST36], Sanyinjiao [SP6] and Taixi [KI3] on the affected side). Besides, the prescription is modified according to the syndrome, and the special technique of bone-touching needling is combined to enhance the therapeutic effect.
Patients with Parkinson's disease suffer from impaired motor behavior due to the dopaminergic striatal deficit and nonmotor symptoms, which also result from nondopaminergic neuronal death. This review provides a personal opinion on treatment strategies for symptoms, resulting at least partially from nondopaminergic neurodegeneration, and on therapeutic modulation of dopaminergic neurotransmission. Patient-tailored treatment regimes on the basis of an individual risk benefit ratio as essential precondition try to balance all these symptoms. Individually varying heterogeneity of symptoms, nonlinear disease progression, treatment response, acceptance, tolerability and safety of applied therapies demand a close, consistent relationship between patient and treating physician. Daily maintenance of patients does not ask for too detailed treatment guidelines.

Research into Parkinson's disease has made much use of the precuing paradigm developed by Posner to examine patients' ability to shift visuospatial attention. The majority of studies indicate that patients with Parkinson's disease have significantly reduced shift costs when compared with normal controls. This reduction in costs is ascribed to abnormal maintenance of attention resulting from Parkinson's disease. We know that visual attention is not directed to spatial locations alone but that it may also be directed to object representations. To date, however, it has not been clear whether the reduced shift costs apparent in Parkinson's disease patients are evident only on spatial locations or on both spatial locations and object representations. Therefore, in the current study we have adopted a new technique with a view to studying both location-based and object-based attentional components within the same paradigm. Our results with 17 patients with Parkinson's disease suggest, at least in the early stages, patients do not show deficits in maintenance of attention to the miscued source of stimulation as reflected in their normal magnitude of cuing effect related to shifting between locations and between objects. 14 normal persons were control subjects.
The diagnosis of Parkinson's disease is mostly likely to be made when it is kept in mind, when it is thought of in a broad context, when patients are seen while moving, and when the tests for the three disorders of movement are systematically performed.
Due to their high prevalence, Parkinson's syndromes are exemplary geriatric syndromes. In addition to idiopathic Parkinson's disease, drug-induced and vascular Parkinson's syndromes are especially relevant in older age. A comprehensive anamnesis, thorough clinical neurological examination and rational additional diagnostics ensure the correct differential diagnostic classification. The multidimensional geriatric assessment is used to quantify the syndrome-specific ability impairments. The primary therapeutic objective in old age is the preservation of everyday competences. Drug treatment is centered around L‑dopa because of its favorable effect-side effect ratio. In cases of motor fluctuations, entacapone, opicapone or safinamide can be added, whereas dopamine agonists are generally unsuitable. Rivastigmine is indicated in mild to moderate Parkinson's dementia and furthermore can possibly improve gait stability. Speech therapy, as well as physical and occupational therapy, including the Parkinson's disease-specific Lee Silverman voice treatment are indispensable components of the multiprofessional treatment concept.
Twenty Parkinsonian patients and 20 control subjects were compared with respect to their electrooculographic findings. It was found that Parkinsonian patients are distinguished from controls by their significantly lower mean EOG ratios. L-dopa treatment restored EOG ratios to control values. The findings are interpreted as indicating an association of Parkinson's disease with metabolic changes in the melanin-containing cells of the pigment epithelium.




Gastrointestinal symptoms caused by autonomic nervous system dysfunction has been well known in Parkinson's disease. This time we had a chance to see a patient with Parkinson's disease associated with acute abdominal pain because of gallstones. This study extended to examine abdominal findings in 79 cases of Parkinson's disease using abdominal ultrasound echography and also studied relationships between echographic findings and age, Hoen-Yahr stage and duration of the illness. Results were as follows: Echographic abnormalities were found 53.2% of the cases. Among them, gallstone was the most frequent findings and the incidence was 29.1% which showed significantly higher than that of the gallstone holding ratio (16.6%) in a age matched Japanese autopsy study. Subsequent findings were renal cyst (16.5%), renal stone (8.9%), liver cyst, portal dilatation and so on. No remarkable relationship was found between Hoen-Yahr stage and gallstone, however good correlation was found between duration of the illness and gallstone. It was concluded that gallstone holding ratio in Parkinson's disease is considerably high compared to that of a age matched Japanese autopsy study, which might be of great use in our daily clinics.
Patients with Parkinson's disease have an illness which shortens their life and involves a heavy symptom burden for patient and carer. This article discusses some common palliative care issues pertinent to patients with Parkinson's disease.
A National Conference on Parkinson's disease was held on September 7th-8th, 1990 in Victoria, British Columbia. The scientific program included 11 formal presentations, 10 small group workshops and video presentations of interesting examples of movement disorders. The subjects discussed ranged from epidemiology and etiology to current and possible future modes of management of Parkinson's disease.
A patient with severe Parkinson's disease had a maximum inspiratory and expiratory flow-volume loop showing a "saw-tooth" pattern. It is concluded that this sign is not specific for the sleep apnea syndrome.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder with fluctuating symptoms. To aid the development of a system to evaluate people with PD (PwP) at home (SENSE-PARK system) there was a need to define parameters and tools to be applied in the assessment of 6 domains: gait, bradykinesia/hypokinesia, tremor, sleep, balance and cognition. To identify relevant parameters and assessment tools of the 6 domains, from the perspective of PwP, caregivers and movement disorders specialists. A 2-round Delphi study was conducted to select a core of parameters and assessment tools to be applied. This process included PwP, caregivers and movement disorders specialists. Two hundred and thirty-three PwP, caregivers and physicians completed the first round questionnaire, and 50 the second. Results allowed the identification of parameters and assessment tools to be added to the SENSE-PARK system. The most consensual parameters were: Falls and Near Falls; Capability to Perform Activities of Daily Living; Interference with Activities of Daily Living; Capability to Process Tasks; and Capability to Recall and Retrieve Information. The most cited assessment strategies included Walkers; the Evaluation of Performance Doing Fine Motor Movements; Capability to Eat; Assessment of Sleep Quality; Identification of Circumstances and Triggers for Loose of Balance and Memory Assessment. An agreed set of measuring parameters, tests, tools and devices was achieved to be part of a system to evaluate PwP at home. A pattern of different perspectives was identified for each stakeholder.
This study explored the perspectives of people with Parkinson's disease (PwP) involved in the co-design of AI tools for PD care. The aim was to understand PwP perspectives on AI tools and identify factors influencing their engagement. A qualitative triangulation of 13 interviews and two focus groups were conducted with a panel of 14 PwPs from six European countries. Data analysis employed inductive content analysis which resulted in 3 categories. Patients emphasized the potential of AI tools to increase patient agency and improve healthcare through co-design. While AI-based medication response prediction was highly regarded, risk assessment tools were met with skepticism. Participants stressed the importance of taking into account disease complexity, individual factors, data protection, and transparency in AI model development. Participants strongly believed in the co-design process, and the value that it could bring to all parties involved in the development of the AI-based tools, ensuring the development of tools that are beneficial and trustworthy.


The growing elderly population will result in a higher incidence of Parkinson's disease. People with Parkinson's disease experience adverse effects from both the condition and the drugs used to treat it. Nurse specialists can play a key part in improving patients' everyday life and educating other nurses.












Tremors, soreness, and reduced motor control led a 35-year-old woman to her family doctor. The unwelcomed diagnosis was early onset Parkinson's disease. Meeting a family physician with whom she can jointly manage the disease has given this patient courage to face the future.





Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive movement disorder characterized by resting tremor, rigidity, akinesia, and postural instability. In addition, PD is characterized by the appearance of Lewy bodies in the remaining neurons. The exact etiology for this disease is still unknown. However, genetic-environmental interaction could contribute the pathomechanisms of PD. Indeed, totally seven causative genes responsible for familial PD have been identified. Since discovery of familial PD (FPD), genetic PD models have been developed. Thus, we think that the research field of FPD provides us a good hint for the pathogenesis of nigral degeneration in not only familial but also sporadic form of PD.

Depressive disorders occur in Parkinson's disease in about 40%. They often manifest--not seldom preceding diagnosis of Parkinson's syndrome--like monopolar depression. Their cause has not yet been explained in a satisfactory way. Neurotransmitter disturbances are discussed as well as psychogenic factors. There seems to be a subtype of Parkinson's disease with more frequent depression, which is characterized by increased rigidity and bradykinesia, lower age at onset and family history of Parkinson's disease. Especially antidepressants, but also sleep deprivation and electroconvulsive therapy are efficient. The review is illustrated by a case report.



During the past decade investigators paid increasing attention to psychomotor retardation and "volitional inhibition" as central elements of thinking and action in depression. In line with this is an increasing appreciation of some striking clinical parallels between particular aspects of Parkinson's disease and psychomotor manifestations of melancholia. We provide an update of the clinical literature regarding diagnostic problems and phenomenology of depressive states in Parkinson's disease and review their relation to cognitive impairments in neuropsychological task performance. We emphasize that many divergent results in older studies concerning Parkinson's disease and depression can be explained by methodological differences and shortcomings. Although the genesis, course, and treatment responsiveness of depressions in Parkinson's disease are still only partially understood, consensus regarding frequency and symptom features is gradually beginning to grow. Recent studies have shown that the occurrence of moderate to severe depressive states meeting the DSM-III-R criteria for Major Depressive Episode in community-based populations of Parkinson's disease patients is considerably lower (less than 10%) than the results of previous studies had suggested. However, a substantial proportion of predominantly younger patients have less severe but clinically significant depressive symptoms. Depression in Parkinson's disease patients is frequently associated with cognitive impairment. The issue of complex relationships between depression and primary, disease-related cognitive dysfunction in Parkinson's disease patients is dealt with in greater detail.





"Parkinson plus" is a group of sporadic degenerative disorders associating Parkinsonism, poorly sensitive to L-dopa, to other neurological syndromes. Thus, progressive supranuclear palsy includes Parkinson's disease, vertical gaze paralysis, nuchal dystonia and dementia; multisystem atrophies associate to different degrees Parkinson's disease (striatonigral degeneration), a cerebellar syndrome (olivopontocerebellar atrophy), dysautonomia (Shy-Drager syndrome), pyramidal syndrome, etc. Other diseases (corticobasal degeneration, diffuse Lewy body disease) also belong to the Parkinson "plus" group. Clinical differentiation between Parkinson "plus" and idiopathic Parkinson's disease is difficult. Their prognosis and treatment are substantially different. Certain diagnosis is based solely upon anatomical observations.
The original description of what currently is known as Parkinson's disease was published 200 years ago. During both these centuries, knowledge on symptomatology, pathophysiology, genetics and pharmaceutical and surgical treatment has significantly increased; however, this nosological entity continues to be of imprecise origin and progressive evolution. In the present review, the historical events that contributed to describe and improve the understanding of this disease are summarized.

Patients suffering from advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) often experience an array of symptoms that greatly affect their quality of life. Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the bilateral subthalamic nuclei (STN) has produced remarkable improvements in people with advanced PD whose symptoms are not adequately controlled with medication. We present a case report on a patient who has benefitted immensely from bilateral STN stimulation. Levodopa responsiveness, disabling motor fluctuations and dyskinesias, cognition, and concurrent illness are major factors in identifying candidates who will receive the greatest benefit.





Parkinson's disease (PD) remains a condition without a cure, though its early manifestations can be managed effectively by medical professionals. This underscores the significance of early detection of PD. It has been widely demonstrated that handwriting analysis is a promising avenue for early PD diagnosis. In recent research, there has been a pivot towards leveraging artificial intelligence (AI) technologies for analyzing handwriting images to aid in diagnosing the disease. This study introduces an innovative network architecture specifically designed to capture the nuances of tremor and irregular spacing characteristic of PD patients' handwriting. By incorporating an attention mechanism, this network is capable of prioritizing different areas within the handwriting feature map, according to their diagnostic relevance. This approach significantly enhances the accuracy of detecting PD through handwriting analysis, with our model achieving an impressive mean accuracy rate of 96.5 %. When compared to traditional convolutional neural networks, our attention-based continuous convolutional network model demonstrates a substantial increase in diagnostic precision.



RECENT DESCRIPTION: Recent report have described "atypical" familial extrapyramidal syndromes similar to authentic Parkinson's disease and well-defined genetic diseases. PERRY SYNDROME: Onset occurs between 35 and 57 years, leading to death within 3 to 7 years. The syndrome associates a Parkinson's syndrome, athymormia and hypoventilation. Massive neuronal depopulation in the locus niger and rare Lewy bodies are seen. PARKINSON'S SYNDROME WITH PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY: In addition to the extrapyramidal signs, there is ptosis, neuropathy and sometimes dementia and major neurone loss in the locus niger. No Lewy bodies have been identified. PARKINSON'S SYNDROME WITH PALLIDOPONTONIGRAL DEGENERATION: Onset occurs between 32 and 58 years, leading to death within 8 years. Extrapyramidal signs, falls, supranuclear palsy and dementia are observed. Neurone loss is severe in the pars compacta, locu sniger, palladium, pons, and mesencephalic tegmentum. There are no Lewy bodies. EARLY-ONSET PARKINSON'S SYNDROME: Beginning between 2 and 39 years, there are no associated neurological signs. Severe neurone loss in the pars compacta and the pars reticulata of the niger locus without Lewy bodies. PARKINSON'S SYNDROME-DEMENTIA WITH "BALLOON NEURONES": This syndrome begins at 24-59 years and leads to death in 8 to 11 years. There are extrapyramidal signs, a pyramidal syndrome, dementia, generalized seizures and dysautonomia. Major neurone loss occurs with balloon neurones in the anterior temporal cortex, the amygdala, the parahippocampal gyrus, the hypothalamus, the dorsal nucleus of the X and rare Lewy bodies. PARKINSON'S SYNDROME FRONTAL DEMENTIA AND AMYOTROPHY: Beginning between 27 and 56 years, the syndrome leads to death in 13 years and associates frontal dementia with motor neurone defects with the extrapyramidal signs. There is neurone loss in the locus niger and amygdala as well as in the anterior horn of the cord. There are no Lewy bodies. SPECIFIC CLINICOPATHOLOGICAL ENTITIES: is the most likely hypothesis. There is no anatomoclinical evidence suggesting these syndromes should be considered to be Parkinson's disease.

As a result of Parkinson's disease patients investigation, and their division on groups depending on prevalence of akinesia and rigidity or tremor, dependence of cognitive and emotional disturbances on motor variant of Parkinson's disease is revealed.
Brain graft surgery remains controversial, and the beneficial effects, though promising, are mixed. For those patients who are eligible, it offers new hope for an alternative to early disability and family hardship. Outlined here are the etiology, pathophysiology, and manifestations of Parkinson's disease, plus the surgical procedure and postoperative nursing care.

Parkinsonism is an important cause of disability in elderly people. Parkinsonian syndromes fall into one of three major categories: Parkinson's disease, secondary (symptomatic) parkinsonism and parkinsonian syndromes occurring as one of the major manifestations of several neuronal system degenerations. Clinical differential diagnosis of parkinsonism may be difficult and studies, which correlate clinically diagnosed Parkinson's disease and the neuropathological findings in the same patients, have shown that 20-30% of these patients had another disease. The prognosis and treatment are different for parkinsonian syndromes and Parkinson's disease, and an accurate clinical diagnosis is thus important, both for research and for management of individual patients. The present article reviews some of the aspects of differential diagnosis of parkinsonism and gives guidelines as to practical diagnostic work with these patients. A new approach to diagnosis in Parkinson's disease is presented. The article also discusses the possible role of new diagnostic tools like imaging techniques and neurophysiological methods in the diagnosis of parkinsonism.
Clinical findings in 196 patients with Parkinson's disease are reviewed and a subdivision of cases into an "equivalent" type (ART-type), akineto-rigid type (AR-type) and tremordominant type (T-type) of Parkinson's disease is introduced. Differences in the rate of progression and association with mental changes as well as in the predisposition for developing L-dopa induced dyskinesias have been observed between these subtypes of Parkinson's disease. The possible relation between tremordominant Parkinson's disease and essential tremor is also discussed.
This year marks the 25th anniversary of the Parkinson's Disease Society in Britain. This paper looks at the aetiology and treatment of idiopathic parkinsonism and, through discussion of the work of a movement disorder clinic in British Columbia, focuses on the unique contribution of nursing care to effective management of the condition. 'Idiopathic parkinsonism' is used to describe parkinsonism of unknown aetiology. This term is preferable to 'Parkinson's disease' before identification of the cause. This position is forcefully endorsed by patient groups who eschew the term 'disease'.
